8900-3111 REV A ©2001 analog and digital systems, inc. www.adst.com analog and digital systems P H 3 0 . 2 owner's manual
table of contents about this manual................................................................................................... 2 features of your PowerPlate TM .................................................................................. 2 warning and tips..................................................................................................... 3 mounting locations................................................................................................. 3 system planning...................................................................................................... 4 signal sources.......................................................................................................... 5 system configurations.............................................................................................. 6 amplifier controls..................................................................................................... 11-12 installation............................................................................................................... 13 controls and connections......................................................................................... 13-14 multi-cross TM crossover and configurations............................................................. 15-16 tuning...................................................................................................................... 17 troubleshooting....................................................................................................... 19 specifications........................................................................................................... 21 warranty information............................................................................................... 22 introduction Although it may be hard to remember, back in the 1970’s, car audio as we now know it didn’t really exist. Sure, music lovers could buy a cassette or 8-track tape deck and some 6” x 9” three-way speakers. Advanced stereo buffs might even add a “power-booster” to increase output to as much as 12 watts RMS! But none of this really delivered the power to cut through road noise with sound quality that compared with the best home audio. Not until 1979 that is, when a/d/s/ introduced the revolutionary PowerPlate TM P100 amplifier and 300i 2-way plate loudspeakers. Aesthetically, the P100 introduced the low profile design which has been an a/d/s/ trademark to this day. Technologically, the P100 combined a high efficiency switching power supply with a state-of-the-art, discrete high- current stereo power amplifier. For the first time, a car audio system existed with the musical integrity and dynamic range that made you want to take long drives to nowhere, just to listen to the music. High quality car audio was born, and the original a/d/s/ PowerPlate TM P100 made it happen. The latest improvements to the PowerPlate TM line-up include increased heatsink area to facilitate higher power output, Constant Bass circuit for subwoofer signal that can be mixed into all channels, and fully balanced high-level inputs compatible with any source. The amplifier you have purchased is an enhancement of the respected P-series multichannel amplifiers. In this version, we have improved upon the already acclaimed sound quality by addressing internal details, and upgrading selected components to incorporate the latest technology which was not available when the P-series was originally designed. Selected low-noise, high-speed op amps are used in critical circuits. Class A-B biasing is used throughout the voltage-gain and active crossover stages. Numerous modifications and “tweaks” were also performed which improve the power supply dynamics and reduce noise. These changes improve transparency and dynamic linearity, resulting in a smoother and more detailed top- end, tighter bass, more explosive dynamic contrasts, and virtually holographic imaging. Left intact are the P-series unequalled flexibility, high efficiency and superb reliability. These, along with multichannel design, are fundamental in the a/d/s/ approach to systems engineering, which makes achieving true high fidelity reproduction simple and predictable in any installation. 1 warranty There are two things you must do to ensure trouble free service in the event you need warranty repairs. 1. Keep your original sales receipt in a safe place. A copy of the receipt will be required to obtain warranty service. 2. Be sure your retail dealer has written the date, model number and serial number (if applicable) of the product on the receipt. To give yourself an extra measure of protection, make a separate record of the information about your purchase and keep it in a safe place. In the event you misplace the sales receipt, your dealer may be able to give you a copy. Take a moment now to read the terms of your warranty. Check to be sure your sales receipt is dated and has the product model number and serial number (if applicable) on it. Then put it away in a safe place. When shipping a Product in for service: Enclose a copy of your original sales receipt that has the date, product model number and serial number (if applicable) written on it. Always ship Products in the complete original packing material. Avoid shipping Products via the postal service. If you must use the postal service, be sure to register and insure the package. a/d/s/ Limited Warranty Analog and Digital System, Inc. (a/d/s/) warrants to the original consumer purchaser of the a/d/s/ Products described in this manual, that the Product will be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one (1) year after the date of purchase, if the Product is installed by an authorized a/d/s/ retail dealer, the warranty is extended to three (3) years. a/d/s/’ sole obligation under the warranty shall be to provide, without charge, parts and labor necessary to remedy the defects, if any, that appear during the warranty period. This warranty is the sole and exclusive express warranty given with respect to the Product. All other express warranties are hereby excluded. Neither a/d/s/ not the authorized dealer who sells the Product is responsible for indirect, incidental, or consequential damages. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state. IMPORTANT – This warranty does not cover: Damage that is the result of misuse, abuse, accident (including but not limited to damage by water), faulty hookup, defective or maladjusted associated equipment, or the use of the Product with equipment of which it was not intended. Cosmetic defects that appear more than thirty (3) days after the date of purchase. Cosmetic damage caused by improper handling is also excluded. Products that are used for commercial purposes. The cost of removing or reinstalling the Product. Damage that occurs while the Product is being shipped to whoever will service it. See the infor- mation above regarding shipping procedures. This warranty is void if: The Product identification or serial number is removed or defaced in any way. The Product is serviced or repaired by anyone other than a/d/s/ or an authorized a/d/s/ dealer or service agency. Original sales receipt: Be sure the retail dealer has written on it the date, model number and serial number (if applicable) of the Product. This information is required for warranty service. This warranty is limited to: Products purchased from authorized a/d/s/ retail dealers in the United States. a/d/s/ will supply a list of authorized dealers on request. In order to obtain warranty service you must: Return the Product, freight prepaid, to the a/d/s/ dealer from which it was purchased, an Autho- rized a/d/s/ independent service agency, or to a/d/s/., If necessary you may call a/d/s/ Customer Service Department for the names and address of authorized independent service agencies in your area. Provide proof of purchase in the form of a copy of your original sales receipt. The date, model number and serial number (if applicable) of the Product must be written on the sales receipt. 22
specifications amplifier section PH 30.2 power output 4 (watts) 1 6 channel 6 x 75 3 channel 3 x 250 power output 2 (watts) 2 4 x 112.5 fuse type 70 A maxi dimensions 13” x 19 7/8” x 2” distortion all channels driven <0.1% 20Hz to 20,000Hz frequency response ±1dB 10Hz to 30,000Hz signal-to-noise ratio full >90dB bandwidth @ rated output power damping factor @ output >150 connector full bandwidth input sensitivity 100mV to 8Vrms for full output input impedance 47 k crossover section3 ch 1 & 2 high-pass 12dB/octave variable 45Hz- 5kHz ch 3 & 4 high-pass & low-pass 12 octave variable 45Hz- 5kHz ch 5 & 6 low-pass 12 octave variable 45Hz- 5kHz constant bass low-pass 12dB/octave 30Hz- 300Hz 1 All channels driven, continuous FTC rated 4 load, 20Hz to 20,000Hz, <0.1% THD, power input voltage at 13.8DVC. 2 All channels driven, continuous FTC rated 2 load, 20Hz to 20,000Hz, <0.1% THD, power input voltage at 13.8DVC. 3 All channels are selectable with infinitely variable adjustments from 45Hz to 5,000Hz with a slope of 12dB/octave and a “Q” of .707. 2 21 about this manual To get the most from your a/d/s/ PowerPlate TM , we recommend that you have the installation performed by your qualified authorized a/d/s/ dealer. If this unit is installed by your dealer, we will extend the warranty to three years instead of the standard one year. However, if you feel that you have the necessary skills and prefer to perform the installation yourself, this manual will guide you through the process of installation and set-up. Please read through it completely before beginning the installation so that you may familiarize yourself with the total procedure before you begin. If there is anything that you do not fully understand, please consult with your a/d/s/ dealer before attempting the installation. keep listening, but be safe! Sustained listening to loud music over 100dB has been shown to cause permanent hearing damage. Systems using a/d/s/ components are capable of achieving volume levels which substantially exceed this level. When operating your system for sustained periods at high volume, be sure to use hearing protection to prevent long-term exposure. We want you to be able to enjoy the music for many more years. features of your PowerPlate™ Remote Level Control Capability – Can be used with accessory control AC502 to provide a dashboard mounted rear channel subwoofer or Constant Bass level control Digital Crossover Frequency Display – The crossover frequency for each channel pair is displayed on the top of the amplifier for quicker, more precise system tuning Detachable Plug in Connector – High current speaker and power connector simplify installation. Multi-cross™ Variable Built-in Crossover’s – High-pass, Low-pass and Bandpass functions are built-in, virtually eliminating the need for external crossover networks in even the most elaborate systems. Constant Bass circuit – Signal from all input channels is summed, low-pass filtered and then made available. PowerPlate™ Design – a/d/s/ original low profile, high efficiency heatsink design keeps size to a minimum and allows mounting where space is limited. Wide Input Sensitivity Range – Allows connection to virtually any source unit from factory OEM radios through low output preamps Simultaneous Stereo and Mono – Each channel pair may be used Stereo, Mono, Bridged or both Stereo and Mono simultaneously. This allows an additional Mono speaker to be used with a stereo pair for center-channel or subwoofer applications from each channel pair using passive crossover’s. Same Side Adjustments – The P-series PowerPlate™ makes system adjustment easy by organizing all signal processing controls on one side of the amplifier. This layout allows convenient system adjustment and facilitates a variety of installation possibilities when access to the controls is desired.
warnings and tips Always disconnect the battery ground wire before doing any work on your vehicle. Reconnect the cable only after the installation is complete and the wiring has been checked to make sure that there are no problems. If your radio features a code type security system, be sure you know the code before disconnecting the battery! Your a/d/s/ PowerPlate TM should be installed in 12V negative ground vehicles only. Connection to other types of electrical systems may cause damage to the vehicle or the amplifier. Wear Eye and Ear protection when using power tools. Do not bypass or modify the fuses, or replace with one of a higher rating. The fuse should not fail under normal operation. Repeated blowing indicates a problem with the amplifier or improper installation. An additional power supply line fuse (not supplied) must be installed on the 12V supply line and located as close as possible to the battery in order to protect the wire in the event of a short circuit. Make sure the system is turned off when making or breaking any connections. Do not use your PowerPlate TM with speakers which have either terminal connected to the speaker frame or to the vehicle chassis. Never operate the vehicle without the PowerPlate TM firmly mounted. An unmounted amplifier can be a dangerous missile in an accident or abrupt stop. mounting locations Due to its low profile, there are many possible choices of mounting locations. Always mount the PowerPlate TM in a place that protects it from the elements. In addition, mount the PowerPlate TM on a stable, flat mounting surface. Whenever possible, pre-drill the mounting holes. Remember to check behind the panel for hidden dangers in the form of hoses, fuel or brake lines or electrical wiring. Use a marking pen or awl to mark the hole locations and pre-drill using a 1/8” bit. Passenger compartment mounting: All PowerPlates TM have been designed with a low profile to make under seat mounting possible. Regardless of where you choose to mount your PowerPlate TM be sure to keep a minimum of 1” of clearance around the amplifier for adequate airflow to prevent overheating. Trunk compartment mounting: The most common mounting location is in the trunk or cargo compartment. For optimum cooling, mount the PowerPlate TM chassis vertically with the fins running vertically, or mount the PowerPlate TM horizontally with the fins pointing upward. Avoid horizontal mounting locations with the fins pointing downward. Also, locate the PowerPlate TM where it, and connections to it, will not be damaged by cargo or tools which may shift during vehicle operation. Engine compartment mounting: Don’t even think about it! The PowerPlate TM was not designed to endure the harsh chemical and heat environment of the engine compartment. Failure to obey this warning will void your warranty. 20 3 symptom possible cause action to take poor bass response Speakers wired with wrong check speaker polarity and polarity causing cancellation repair as needed at low frequencies battery fuse blowing impedance load to amplifier check speaker impedance too low load, if below 2 stereo or 4 mono rewire speakers to achieve a higher impedance amplifier fuse blowing impedance load to amplifier check speaker impedance too low or wired 2 stereo load, or 4 mono, rewire or 4 mono speakers to achieve a higher impedance crossover set incorrectly reset crossover’s referring to the multi-cross TM crossover configuration section of this manual for detailed instructions short in power wire check power and ground or incorrect power connections and repair as connections needed fuse used is smaller than replace with proper fuse recommended size too much current being check speaker impedance drawn load, if below 2 stereo or 4 mono rewire speakers to achieve a higher impedance short in power wire or check power and ground incorrect power connections connections and repair as needed fuse used is smaller than replace with proper fuse size recommended too much current being check speaker impedance drawn load, if below 2 stereo or 4 mono rewire speaker to achieve a higher impedance check power and ground connections and repair as needed check power and ground connections and repair as needed
troubleshooting symptom possible cause action to take no output low or no remote turn-on check remote turn-on input voltage output at amplifier and correct as needed audio cycles on and off speakers are blown check system with known working speaker and repair or replace speakers as needed thermal protection engages make sure there is proper when amplifier heatsink ventilation for amplifier and temperature exceeds 85° C improve ventilation as needed distorted output amplifier level sensitivity reset gain referring to the set too high; exceeding tuning section of the manual maximum output for detailed instructions capability of amplifier 4 19 fuse blown check power wire integrity and reversed polarity, repair as needed and replace fuse power wires not connected check power wire and ground connections and repair or replace as needed audio input not connected check input connections and or no output from source signal integrity, repair or replace as needed speaker wires not connected check speaker wires and repair or replace as needed loose or poor audio input check input connections and repair or replace as needed impedance load to amplifier check speaker impedance too low load if below 2 stereo or 4 mono rewire speakers to achieve a higher impedance shorted speaker wires check speaker wire connections and repair or replace as needed speaker not connected to check speaker wiring and amplifier properly repair or replace as needed refer to the installation quick reference section of this manual for detailed instructions internal crossover not set reset crossover’s referring to properly the for speaker multi-cross™ crossover configuration section of this manual speakers are blown check system with known working speakers and repair or replace as needed system planning Proper system planning is the best way to maximize your PowerPlate’s TM performance. By planning your installation carefully you can avoid situations where the performance or the reliability of your system is compromised. Your authorized a/d/s/ dealer has been trained to maximize your system’s sonic potential. Your a/d/s/ dealer is a valuable resource in helping you with your system design and installation. speaker requirements Each channel of your PowerPlate TM can easily drive 2 Ohm speaker loads when used in the stereo mode. When a channel- pair is bridged, the re c o m m e n d e d minimum load impedance is 4 Ohm. Do not use speakers or combinations of speakers that result in less than a 4 Ohm load when in bridged mode or 2 Ohm in stereo mode. Most speakers designed for car audio operation have in 4 Ohm impedance. Connecting two such speakers in parallel will result in a 2 Ohm impedance load as seen by the amplifier. Some a/d/s/ subwoofer models feature a dual 4 Ohm voice coil design. Connecting these voice coils in parallel will result in a 2 Ohm nominal impedance which is not recommended for use with bridged channels of your PowerPlate TM .
signal sources Due to the wide input level adjustment range, all a/d/s/ PowerPlates TM can be driven with either a conventional preamplifier drive signal or the amplifier signal from a powered source unit. This makes the PowerPlate TM perfect for upgrading an OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) stereo system while retaining the factory installed radio. Because of the high impedance of the a/d/s/ input stage, the factory radio drives an easy load. This ensures lower distortion levels than if it was driving speakers or a Line Output Converter accessory. As a result, a high quality factory installed radio can deliver high quality sound which is nearly as good as the sound from a high-end aftermarket source unit. The speaker outputs of the factory radio are simply connected to a mini-DIN adapter as shown below. From this point on, the signal can be treated exactly as you would a preamp-level signal, except that the input level controls on the PowerPlate TM will be set to a lower than usual level when you make your final adjustments. Conventional aftermarket sources may be connected using standard shielded RCA cables from the source units preamp outputs to the PowerPlate TM inputs. Note: When using 4 or 6 channels of input, be sure to configure the 2ch/4 ch input switch to 4ch input. Failure to do so may result in damage to the source unit. Pin Wire Color Connects to Head Unit 1 gray front right + 2 violet/black rear right - 3 white front left + 4 gray/black front right - 5 white/black front left - 6 green rear left + 7 green/black rear left - 8 violet rear right + 18 5 adjusting input sensitivity The input sensitivity setting is important to ensure proper performance, low noise levels, and maximum system reliability. As a general rule, components at the “front end” of the system should be set as high as possible with the input sensitivity of the amplifier set as low as possible while still providing adequate volume levels. Using a high signal level from the source and a low input sensitivity setting on the amplifier will keep the background noise levels of the system low. The following procedure will help you get the widest dynamic range from your system: 1. Start with the input level controls of your PowerPlate TM at the minimum (counterclockwise) position. 2. Set the tone controls and any controls on equalizers or other signal processors to their flat or bypassed positions. 3. Set the input and output level controls, if any, on any associated equipment such as equalizers or outboard electronic crossover as recommended by their manufacturers. 4. Select a well recorded CD or Tape containing material recorded at a fairly high level. Musical content is not important except that the music chosen should be recorded such that any system distortion can be clearly heard, not masked by musical content. 5. Increase the source unit volume control about halfway. Increase the PowerPlate TM level control associated with the front full range (or midrange in a bi-amplified front system) until you can hear sound at a low but clear level. 6. While listening carefully for any signs of distortion, slowly increase the source unit volume control until you either hear the first signs of distortion or you can’t turn it up any more. Back down on the volume control slightly until the distortion goes away. You have just found the maximum undistorted output level of your source unit. Do not exceed the level in normal operation, as doing so will just send a distorted signal to the rest of the system. 7. Returning to the PowerPlate TM level control associated with the front main speakers, slowly increase it until you reach the point where distortion just begins to appear. This will be at the point where either the amplifier reaches its maximum output level, or the speakers reach their output limits. Either way, you have just calibrated the system so that the maximum system out put occurs at the same point as the maximum output from the source. This will give you minimum system noise yet the system will reach its maximum output capability. 8. Reduce the source unit volume to a comfortable listening level. With the balance and fader controls still centered, adjust the remaining level controls for the proper system balance. If you are adjusting a system with multiple amplifiers, it is easiest to adjust the controls in the following order: 1. Front speakers 2. Rear speakers 3. Subwoofers 9. If using an AC502 remote level control, adjust the subwoofer level with the AC502 in the mid position. This will give you the ability to boost the subwoofer level approximately 6dB when the AC502 is turned fully clockwise. 10. Double check your system levels by increasing the source unit volume control to the previously determined maximum position. If you hear distortion from any of the channels, reduce the PowerPlate TM input level for those channels until the distortion goes away. Adjusting the input levels in this way will get maximum undistorted output from your system and will make it unlikely that you will cause damage to any of the components of your system by overpowering them.
Constant bass circuit To mix sub-bass information into channels 1/2 and 3/4, select a low-pass crossover point, and use the level controls to set the level of sub-bass signal sent to channels 1/2 and 3/4. Using the AC502 (optional) The AC502 remote level control, available as an accessory from your a/d/s/ dealer, may be used with your PowerPlate TM to remotely adjust the level of channels 5/6, OR to remotely adjust the constant bass level. To use this feature, simply connect the AC502 into the DIN connector on the PH30, and install the AC502 in the desired location. To adjust the constant bass level, Locate the AC502 control switch on amplifier and push IN, or leave it OUT to control the level of channels 5/6. This remote capability can also be used on channels 1/2 and 3/4 when the PH30 is used in the 2-channel bridged mode. Refer to the “adjustments” section for information on setting up the AC502 for the appropriate adjustment range. tuning tuning the crossover All of the crossover controls in the multi-cross TM crossover section are marked at four reference frequency points. These are 45Hz, 175Hz, 600Hz and 5,000Hz. Specific crossover points should be chosen based on the operating range recommended by the manufacturer of your speakers. The 85Hz position is a good starting point to use for subwoofer low-pass or midrange high-pass use. When bi- amping a/d/s/ loudspeaker components 2500Hz is a good starting point for the midrange low-pass, and 3500Hz is recommended as the tweeter high-pass. Once installed, you can fine tune the crossover points using your ears or with the aid of an RTA to achieve maximum performance. With any loudspeaker, minor deviations from the recommended frequency ranges may provide superior results, depending on your speaker locations and your vehicle’s acoustics. Setting crossover frequencies higher than recommended will not cause damage and may provide good results. However, DO NOT set high- pass tweeter crossover points below the tweeter’s recommended operating range. Doing so will likely cause damage not covered by the manufacturer’s warranty. If you are using non-a/d/s/ speakers, refer to the manufacturer’s recommendation for selecting the proper crossover frequencies. 6 17 system configurations All a/d/s/ PowerPlates TM provide extensive features which make a variety of system configurations possible. It is not feasible to cover all of the possibilities within the few pages of this manual. There are a few system configurations, however, which are extremely popular when used alone or as a “building block” of a larger more elaborate system. Please review systems 1 through 4 described below for suggestions on how to configure the most popular combinations. Larger systems may be built from a combination of the simpler building blocks as shown in systems 5 and 6. System 1 – PH30.2 used in 6-channel mode in 1 and 2 are used for front high-bass speakers, channels 3 and 4 are used for rear high-pass speakers and channels 5 and 6 are used to drive subwoofers. Although shown as a 4-channel input, the source unit can be either 2 or 4 channel depending on the setting of the 2/4 channel swith. Note: Optional AC502 can be used in this system to adjust the level of the subwoofers. button is disengaged control is non-operational button is engaged control is operational
System 2 – PH30 used in 5-channel mode with the AC502 providing level control for briged channels 5 and 6. 1 and 2 are high-passed for front speaker and channels 3 and 4 are high-passed for rear speakers. Although shown as a 4-channel input, the source unit can be either 2 or 4-channel depending on the setting of the 2/4 channel switch. System 3 – PH30 used in 6-channel mode with source unit providing direct level control for channels 5 and 6 through the fader control. Channels 1 and 2 are configured high-pass for tweeters, channels 3 and 4 are configured bandpass for midrange and channels 5 and 6 are configured low-pass for subwoofers. 16 7 digital crossover frequency display To facilitate quicker system tuning, we have incorporated a digital display that shows the crossover frequency for each crossover section, including the lowpass crossover for the constant bass circuit. Push the select switch to scroll through the different sections, and a blue led will indicate which crossover is currently displayed. Level controls – Independent level controls for channels 1/2, 3/4 adjust the input sensitivity from 100 mV to 8 VRMS. Note: When crossover 3/4 output is selected for channels 1/2, the 3/4 level control adjusts the output level for channels 1/2 and 3/4 simultaneously. Output – Three position switches determine the output configuration. Each stereo pair of channels can be configured in either stereo, summed-bridged and bridged-mono. When the switch is in the left position, the output channels are configured for stereo operation. When the switch is in the right position, the output channels are configured for a bridged mono output using a single RCA input. Ch 1 input is used for channels 1 & 2 and ch 4 input is used for channels 3 & 4. When the switch is in the center position, the output channels are configured for summed mono bridged operation by mixing the left and right input signals together.
Internal signal routing 2-channel/4-channel input switch – routes RCA input from channels 1/2 to channels 3/4. When the switch is engaged, channel 1 input is routed to both amplifier channels 1 and 3 with input channel 2 routed to amplifier channels 2 and 4. Switch in the engaged position. When the switch is disengaged, channels 1, 2, 3, and 4 receive signal individually from their respective inputs. Switch in the disengaged position. multi-cross TM crossover configuration xover control 1/2 The crossover selection for channels 1 & 2 has three possibilities: When the switch is in the left position, the crossover section of the amplifier is bypassed. Channels 1 & 2 output is full range. When the switch is the center position, channels 1 & 2 are filtered through a 12dB per octave high-pass crossover that is infinitely variable from 45Hz to 5,000Hz. When the switch is in the right position, channels 1 & 2 receive signal from the crossover output of channels 3 & 4. Note: When the switch is in the right position, the output level is controlled by the ch 3/4 level control. xover control 3/4 The crossover sections dedicated for channels 3 & 4 are activated by depressing the switch next to each frequency adjustment control. Both high-pass and low-pass crossover’s are infinitely adjustable from 45Hz to 5,000Hz. The high-pass and low-pass sections may be used individually or together to create a bandpass filter. Note: When using both sections to create a bandpass filter, make sure you have selected a low-pass frequency which is higher than the high- pass frequency! xover control 5/6 The crossover selection for channels 5 & 6 has three possibilities: When the switch is in the left position, the crossover section of the amplifier is bypassed. Channels 5 & 6 output is full range. When the switch is the center position, channels 5 & 6 are filtered through a 12dB per octave low-pass crossover that is infinitely variable from 45Hz to 5,000Hz. When the switch is in the right position, channels 5 & 6 receive signal from the crossover output of channels 3 & 4. Note: When the switch is in the right position, the output level is controlled by the ch 3/4 level control. 8 15 System 4 – PH30 used in 4-channel mode with high-pass tweeters and bandpass midrange. Channels 1and 2 are configured high-pass for the main tweeters and channels 3 and 4, and 5 and 6 are configured bandpass for main midrange. Channels 4 and 6 are controllled by the 3/4 level control and crossover section. The amplifier is configured for a 2-channel input. System 5 – PH30 used in 4-channel mode with high-pass main speakers and low-pass subwoofers. Channels 1 and 2 are configured high-pass for front speakers and channels 3/4, and 5/6 are configured low-pass for bridged output subwoofers. The amplifer is configured for a 4-channel input. Front/rear fader adjusts subwoofer level.
System 6 – PH30 used in 3-channel bridged mode with two channels dedicated for the main speakers and and one bridged channel pair used for a subwoofer. Channels 1/2, and 3/4 are configured high- pass for the main front speakers using a single pair of RCA inputs to produce a bridiged mono output. 14 9 speaker connections for stereo configurations Minimum recommended impedance is 2 Ohm stereo. Speaker terminals accept up to AWG #12 speaker wire. speaker connections for bridged configurations Minimum recommended impedance is 4 Ohm when bridged. Speaker terminals accept up to 12 gauge speaker wire.
installation 1. Disconnect the battery ground cable. Reconnect the ground cable only after the installation is complete and the wiring has been checked to make sure that there are no problems. If your radio features a code type security system, be sure you know the code before disconnecting the battery! 2. Run a minimum AWG #8 power wire directly from the battery to the PowerPlate TM mounting location. Install a fuseholder at the battery end of this cable either within 18” of the battery or before the wire runs through any metal partitions. Do not install the fuse at this time. 3. Attach a minimum AWG #8 ground wire to a solid chassis ground point near the mounting loca tion. Keep this wire as short as possible. Scrape all paint and primer off of the sheet metal at the ground point to ensure a good electrical connection. Attach the wire to the ground point with a nut, bolt and star washer. If this doesn’t work, we recommended that a seperate #8 ground be run back to the battery-terminal. 4. Run the signal leads and remote turn-on leads from the head unit to the PowerPlate™ location. Refer to the “signal sources” section for the proper wiring connections. 5. Run each of the speaker leads to the PowerPlate TM location. Connect the speaker, remote, and power wires to the appropriate terminals on the plug-in connector. Refer to the “controls and connections” or “system planning” sections for information on the proper connections. 6. Preset the 2/4 channel selector switch, crossover and channel mode switches, and crossover fre quency switches to the desired positions. Refer to the “controls and connections” section for more information. 7. Adjust all amplifier input level controls to the 1/4 position to full counter-clockwise, then turn clockwise 1/4 turn. 8. Mount the amplifier into position and plug in the power and speaker terminals. Attach the input signal cables. 9. Reattach the battery ground cable. 10. Attach a minimum AWG #8 ground wire from the battery ground terminal to a solid chassis ground point near the battery. see#3 11. Double check your switch and control settings. Install an 80A fuse in the fuseholder you have installed near the battery. 12. Turn on the signal source at a low volume level. Using the balance and fader controls, check to see that each channel is connected to the proper speakers. Make sure that the proper frequency range is being sent to each speaker if you are using the crossover features built in to your PowerPlate™. 13. Adjust the input sensitivity and crossover frequencies as described in the “tuning” section. controls and connections Use AWG #8 or larger power and ground cable.Install an 80A fuse in the power wire within 18” of the battery. Keep the ground wire to a minimum length and attach solidly to a clean metal part of the vehicle. The addition of a .5 Farad to 1 Farad power supply capacitor, mounted as close as possible to the PowerPlate T M , may i m p rove perf o rmance in some systems. 10 13 System 7 – Two PH30.2s are used. The first PH30.2 is configured the same as system 4 and the second PH30.2 is configured simular to system 5. The first amplifier drives the front midrange and tweeters and the second amplifers drives the rear speakers and the subwoofer.
12 11
