EN INDUCTION HOB HK654200IB USER MANUAL
2 FOR PERFECT RESULTS ACCESSORIES AND CONSUMABLES Thank you for choosing this AEG product. We have created it to give you impeccable performance for many years, with innovative technologies that help make life simpler – features you might not find on ordinary appliances. Please spend a few minutes reading to get the very best from it. In the AEG webshop, you’ll find everything you need to keep all your AEG appliances looking spotless and working perfectly. Along with a wide range of accessories designed and built to the high quality standards you would expect, from specialist cookware to cutlery baskets, from bottle holders to delicate laundry bags… Visit the webshop at: www.aeg.com/shop
CONTENTS 4 Safety information 5 Installation instructions 8 Product description 9 Operating instructions 13 Helpful hints and tips 15 Care and cleaning 15 What to do if… 16 Environment concerns The following symbols are used in this user manual: Important information concerning your personal safety and information on how to avoid damaging the appliance. General information and tips Environmental information Subject to change without notice Contents 3
4 Safety information SAFETY INFORMATION For your safety and correct operation of the appliance, read this manual carefully before the installation and use. Always keep these instructions with the appliance also if you move or sell it. The users must fully know the operation and safety functions of the appliance. Children and vulnerable people safety WARNING! Do not let persons, children included, with reduced physical sensory, reduced mental func- tions or lack of experience and knowledge to use the appliance. They must have supervision or instruction for the operation of the appliance by a person who is responsible for their safety. Keep all packaging away from children. There is the risk of suffocation or injury. Keep the children away from the appliance during and after the operation, until the ap- pliance is cold. WARNING! Activate the child safety device to prevent small children and pets from an accidental acti- vation of the appliance. Safety during operation Remove all packaging, stickers and layers from the appliance before the first use. Set the cooking zones to "off" after each use. The risk of burns! Do not put the objects made of metal, for example cutlery or saucepan lids, on the surface that you cook. They can become hot. The Users with an implanted pacemaker must keep their upper body minimum 30 cm from induction cooking zones that are activated. WARNING! Fire risk! Too hot fats and oils can occur with ignition very quickly. Correct operation Always monitor the appliance during operation. The appliance is only for domestic use! Do not use the appliance as a work or a storage surface. Do not put or keep very flammable liquids and materials, easy fusible objects (made of plastic or aluminium) on or near the appliance. Be careful when you connect the appliance to the near sockets. Do not let the electricity bonds touch the appliance or hot cookware. Do not let the electricity bonds to tangle. How to prevent a damage to the appliance. If the objects or cookware fall on the glass, the surface can be damaged. Cookware made of cast iron, cast aluminium or with damaged bottoms can cause scratch of the glass. Do not move them on the surface.
Do not let cookware boil dry to prevent the damage to cookware and glass . Do not use the cooking zones with empty cookware or without cookware. Do not put the aluminium foil on the appliance. Make sure that the airflow space of 5 mm between the worktop and front of the unit below it stays opened. WARNING! If there is a crack on the surface, disconnect power supply to prevent the electrical shock. INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS Before the installation , note down the serial number (Ser. Nr.) from the rating plate. The rating plate of the appliance is on its lower casing. The Safety Instructions WARNING! You must read these! Make sure that the appliance is not damaged because of transportation. Do not connect a damaged appliance. If it is necessary, speak to the supplier. Only an authorized servicing technician can install, connect or repair this appliance. Use only original spare parts. Only use the built - in appliances after you assemble the appliance into correct built - in units and work surfaces that align to the standards. Do not change the specifications or change this product. Risk of injury and damage to the appliance. Fully obey the laws, ordinances, directives and standards in force in the country where you use the appliance (safety regulations, recycling regulations, electrical safety rules etc.)! Keep the minimum distances to other appliances and units! Install shock protection, for example install the drawers only with a protective floor di- rectly below the appliance! Keep safe the cut surfaces of the worktop from moisture with a correct sealant! Seal the appliance to the work top with no space between with a correct sealant! Keep safe the bottom of the appliance from steam and moisture, e.g. from a dishwasher or oven! Do not install the appliance adjacent to doors and below windows! If not, when you open the doors or windows they can push off hot cookware from the appliance. HK654200IB 949 595 103 00 58 GAD D5 AU 220-240 V 50-60-Hz Induction 7,4 kW 7,4 kW AEG Installation instructions 5
6 Installation instructions WARNING! Risk of injury from electrical current. Carefully obey the instructions for electrical connec- tions. The electrical mains terminal is live. Make electrical mains terminal free of voltage. Install correctly to give shock protection. Loose and incorrect plug and socket connections can make the terminal become too hot. A qualified electrician must install the connections in the clamps correctly. Use a strain relief clamp on cable. Use the correct mains cable of type H05BB - F Tmax 90°C (or higher) for a single phase or two phase connection. Replace the damaged mains cable with a special cable (type H05BB - F Tmax 90°C; or higher). Speak to your local Service Centre. The appliance must have the electrical installation which lets you disconnect the appliance from the mains at all poles with a contact opening width of minimum 3 mm. You must have correct devices to isolate: line protecting cut - outs, fuses (screw type fuses removed from the holder), earth leakage trips and contactors. To attach the seal to the rabbet Clean the rabbet in the work surface. Bond the seal stripe supplied on the upper surface of the rabbet along the edges of the cut out section. Cut the seal stripe into four pieces in relation to the length of the edges of the rabbet. For the four corners of the rabbet the ends of the seal stripes must be cut into mitres. Do not bond the ends over one another. Bond the seal stripe flush into the corner of the rabbet. Make sure that no silicon com- pound can get below the glass ceramic when grouting. Do not extend the tapes. Assembly min. min. 50mm 50mm min. 500mm min. 5mm
R10 mm R5 mm 7 mm 12 mm 514 +1 mm 584 +1 mm If you use a protection box (the additional acces- sory 1) ), the front airflow space of 5 mm and pro- tective floor directly below the appliance are not necessary. You can not use the protection box if you install the appliance above an oven. 1) The protection box accessory may not be available in some countries. Please contact your local supplier. min. 600 mm 490 +1 mm 560 +1 mm min. 38 mm min. 5 mm Installation instructions 7 min. min. 20 mm 5 mm min. 25 mm
8 Product description PRODUCT DESCRIPTION General overview Control panel layout 5 1 2 3 4 Use the sensor fields to operate the appliance The displays, indicators and sounds tell which function operate. sensor field function It activates and deactivates the appliance. 1 It locks/unlocks the control panel. 2 cooking zones' indicators of timer It shows for which cooking zone you set the time. 3 the timer display It shows the time in minutes. 4 It activates the Power function. 5 a heat setting display It shows the heat setting. 6 a control bar To set the heat setting. 7 It increases or decreases the time. 8 / It selects the cooking zone. 9 1 2 180 180 mm mm 145 mm 210 mm 4 5 10 8 9 7 6 1 Induction cooking zone 1800 W, with Power function 2800 W (minimum cookware diameter =145mm). 2 Induction cooking zone 1800 W, with Power function 2800 W (minimum cookware diameter =145mm). 3 Induction cooking zone 1400 W, with Power function 2500 W (minimum cookware diameter =125mm). 3 4 Control panel 5 Induction cooking zone 2300 W, with Power function 3700 W (minimum cookware diameter =180mm).
sensor field function It activates and deactivates STOP+GO 10 Heat setting displays The cooking zone operates. - There is a malfunction. + digit OptiHeat Control (3 step Residual heat indicator) : continue cook / / / stay warm / residual heat. OptiHeat Control (3 step Residual heat indicator) WARNING! \ \ The risk of burns from residual heat! OptiHeat Control shows the level of the residual heat. The induction cooking zones make the heat necessary for cooking directly in the bottom of the cookware. The glass ceramic is hot from the heat of the cookware. OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS Activation and deactivation Touch for 1 second to activate or deactivate the appliance. Automatic Switch Off The function stops the hob automatically if: All cooking zones are deactivated. You do not set the heat setting after you activate the appliance. You spill something or put something on the control panel for more than 10 seconds, (a pan, a cloth, etc.). The sound operates some time and the appliance deactivates. Remove the object or clean the control panel. The appliance become too hot (e.g. when, a saucepan boils dry). Before you use the hob again, the cooking zone must be cool. Display Description The cooking zone is deactivated. The function operates. The Automatic Heat Up function operates. Power function operates. Lock/The Child Safety functions operates. Not correct cookware or too small or no cookware on the cooking zone. The Automatic Switch Off function operates. Operating instructions 9
10 Operating instructions You use not correct cookware. The symbol comes on and the cooking zone deacti- vates automatically after 2 minutes. You do not deactivate a cooking zone or change the heat setting. After some time, comes on and the appliance deactivates. See the table. The times of Automatic Switch Off Heat setting - - - - The cooking zone deactivates after The heat setting Touch the control bar at the heat setting. Change to the left or the right, if it is necessary. Do not release before you have a correct heat setting. The display shows the heat setting. Automatic Heat Up You can get a necessary heat setting in a shorter time if you activate the Automatic Heat Up function. This function sets the highest heat setting for some time (see the illustration), and then decreases to the necessary heat setting. To start the Automatic Heat Up function for a cooking zone: 1. Touch ( comes on in the display). 2. Immediately touch the necessary heat setting. After 3 seconds comes on in the dis- play. To stop the function change the heat setting. Power function The Power function makes more power available to the induction cooking zones. The Power function is activated for 10 minutes at most. After, that the induction cooking zone auto- matically sets back to highest heat setting. To activate, touch , comes on. To deacti- vate, touch a heat setting - . 6 hours 5 hours 4 hours 1.5 hours 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
Power management The power management divides the power be- tween two cooking zones in a pair (see the illus- tration). The power function increases the power to the maximum level for one cooking zone in the pair. Automatically decreases the power in the second cooking zone to a lower level. The display for the reduced zone change between two levels. Timer Count Down Timer Use the Count Down Timer to set how long the cooking zone operates for only this one time. Set the Count Down Timer after the selection of the cooking zone. You can set the heat setting before or after you set the timer. To set the cooking zone: touch again and again until the indicator of a necessary cooking zone comes on. To activate the Count Down Timer: touch of the timer to set the time ( 00 - 99 minutes). When the indicator of the cooking zone start to flash slow, the time counts down. To see the remaining time: set the cooking zone with . The indicator of the cooking zone starts to flash quickly. The display shows the remaining time. To change the Count Down Timer: set the cooking zone with . Touch or . To deactivate the timer: set the cooking zone with . Touch . The remaining time counts back to 00 . The indicator of the cooking zone goes out. To deactivate you can also touch and at the same time. When the countdown comes to an end, the sound operates and 00 flashes. The cooking zone deactivates. To stop the sound: touch CountUp Timer ( The count up timer) Use the CountUp Timer to monitor how long the cooking zone operates. To set the cooking zone (if more than 1 cooking zone operate ) : touch again and again until the indicator of a necessary cooking zone comes on. To activate the CountUp Timer: touch of the timer comes on. When the indicator of the cooking zone starts to flash slow, the time counts up. The display switches be- tween and counted time (minutes). To see how long the cooking zone operates: set the cooking zone with . The indica- tor of the cooking zone starts to flash quickly. The display shows the time that the cook- ing zone operates. Operating instructions 11
12 Operating instructions To deactivate the CountUp Timer: set the cooking zone with and touch or to deactivate the timer. The indicator of the cooking zone goes out. Minute Minder You can use the timer as a Minute Minder while the cooking zones do not operate. Touch . Touch or of the timer to set the time. When the time comes to an end, the sound operates and 00 flashes. To stop the sound: touch STOP+GO The function sets all cooking zones that operate to the lowest heat setting ( ). When operates, you cannot change the heat setting. The function does not stop the timer function. To activate this function touch . The symbol comes on. To deactivate this function touch . The heat setting that you set before comes on. Lock When the cooking zones operate, you can lock the control panel, but not . It prevents an accidental change of the heat setting. First set the heat setting. To start this function touch . The symbol comes on for 4 seconds. The Timer stays on. To stop this function touch . The heat setting that you set before comes on. When you stop the appliance, you also stop this function. The child safety device This function prevents an accidental operation of the appliance. To activate the child safety device Activate the appliance with . Do not set the heat settings . Touch for 4 seconds. The symbol comes on. Deactivate the appliance with . To deactivate the child safety device Activate the appliance with . Do not set the heat settings . Touch for 4 seconds. The symbol comes on. Deactivate the appliance with . To override the child safety device for only one cooking time Activate the appliance with . The symbol comes on. for 4 seconds. Set the heat setting in 10 seconds. You can operate the appli- Touch ance. When you deactivate the appliance with , the child safety device operates again. OffSound Control (Deactivation and activation of the sounds) Deactivation of the sounds Deactivate the appliance.
Touch for 3 seconds. The displays come on and go out. Touch for 3 seconds. comes on, the sound is on. Touch , comes on, the sound is off. When this function operates, you can hear the sounds only when: you touch the Minute Minder comes down the Count Down Timer comes down you put something on the control panel. Activation of the sounds Deactivate the appliance. Touch for 3 seconds. The displays come on and go out. Touch for 3 seconds. comes on, because the sound is off. Touch , comes on. The sound is on. HELPFUL HINTS AND TIPS Use the induction cooking zones with correct cookware. Cookware for induction cooking zones For induction cooking zones a strong electro - magnetic field creates the heat in the cook- ware very quickly. Cookware material correct: cast iron, steel, enamelled steel, stainless steel, the bottom made of multi - layer (with correct mark from a manufacturer). not correct: aluminium, copper, brass, glass, ceramic, porcelain. Cookware is correct for an induction hob if … ... some water boils very quickly on a zone set to the highest heat setting. ... a magnet pulls on to the bottom of the cookware. The bottom of the cookware must be as thick and flat as possible. Cookware dimensions : induction cooking zones adapt to the dimension of the bottom of the cookware automatically to some limit. The noises during operation If you can hear crack noise: cookware is made of different materials (Sandwich construction). whistle sound: you use one or more cooking zones with high power levels and the cook- ware is made of different materials (Sandwich construction). humming: you use high power levels. clicking: electric switching occurs. hissing, buzzing: the fan operates. The noises are normal and do not refer to appliance malfunction. Helpful hints and tips 13
14 Helpful hints and tips Energy saving If it is possible, always put the lids on the cookware. Put cookware on a cooking zone before you start it. Öko Timer (Eco Timer) To save the energy, the heater of the cooking zone deactivates before the count down timer signal. The difference in the operation time is depends of the heat setting level and the time you cook. The examples of cooking applications The data in the table is for guidance only. Heat setting Keep cooked foods warm as nec- 1 essary 1 - 3 Hollandaise sauce, melt: butter, choco- late, gelatine 1 - 3 Solidify: fluffy omelettes, baked eggs 10 - 40 min 3 - 5 Simmer rice and milkbased dishes, heat- ing up ready - cooked meals 5 - 7 Steam vegetables, fish, meat 20 - 45 min 7 - 9 Steam potatoes 20 - 60 min 7 - 9 Cook larger quantities of food, stews and soups 9 - 12 Gentle fry: escalope, veal cordon bleu, cutlets, rissoles, sausages, liver, roux, eggs, pancakes, doughnuts 12 - 13 Heavy fry, hash browns, loin steaks, steaks 14 Boil large quantities of water, cook pasta, sear meat (goulash, pot roast), deep fry chips. The Power function is best to heat up large quantities of water. Information on acrylamides Important! According to the newest scientific knowledge, if you brown food (specially the one which contains starch), acrylamides can pose a health risk. Thus, we recommend that you cook at the lowest temperatures and do not brown food too much. Use to: Time Hints 5 - 25 min 25 - 50 min 60 - 150 min as nec- essary 5 - 15 min Put a lid on a cookware. Mix from time to time. Cook with a lid on. Add the minimum two times as much liquid as rice, mix milk dishes at some point of the procedure through. Add some tablespoons of liquid. Use max. ¼ l water for 750 g of po- tatoes. Up to 3 l liquid plus ingredients. Turn halfway through. Turn halfway through.
CARE AND CLEANING Clean the appliance after each use. Always use cookware with clean bottom. WARNING! The sharp objects and abrasive cleaning agents can cause damage to the appliance. For your safety, do not clean the appliance with steam cleaners or high - pressure cleaners. Scratches or dark stains on the glass - ceramic cause no effect on how the appliance oper- ates. To remove the dirt: 1. – Remove immediately: melted plastic, plastic foil, and food with sugar. If not, the dirt can cause damage to the appliance. Use a special scraper for the glass . Put the scraper on the glass surface at an acute angle and move the blade on the surface . – Remove after the appliance is sufficiently cool: limescale rings , water rings, fat stains, shiny metallic discolorations. Use a special cleaning agent for glass ceramic or stainless steel. 2. Clean the appliance with a moist cloth and some detergent. 3. At the end rub the appliance dry with a clean cloth. WHAT TO DO IF… You cannot activate the appli- ance or operate it. A Sound operates and the ap- pliance deactivates. A sound operates when the ap- pliance is deactivated. The appliance deactivates. You put something on the . Remove the object from the sensor field. The residual heat indicator does not comes on. Problem Possible cause and remedy Activate the appliance again and set the heat setting in 10 seconds. You touched 2 or more sensor fields at the same time. Only touch one sensor field. The Child Safety Device or the Lock or Stop+Go operates. See the chapter Operating instructions. There is water or fat stains on the control panel. Clean the control panel. You put something on one or more sensor fields. Remove the ob- ject from the sensor fields. The cooking zone is not hot because it operated only for a short time. If the cooking zone should be hot, speak to the service cen- tre. Care and cleaning 15
16 Environment concerns The Automatic Heat Up func- tion does not operate. The heat setting changes be- tween two levels. The sensor fields become hot. The cookware is too large or you out it too near to the controls. Put large cookware on the rear cooking zones if it is necessary. There is no signal when you touch the panel sensor fields. The Automatic Switch Off operates. Deactivate the appliance and comes on activate it again. No cookware on the cooking zone. Put cookware on the cook- comes on ing zone. Not correct cookware. Use the correct cookware. The diameter of the bottom of the cookware is too small for the cooking zone. Move cookware to a smaller cooking zone. There is an error in the appliance. and number comes on. Disconnect the appliance from the electrical supply for some time. Disconnect the fuse from the electrical system of the house. Connect again. If comes on again, speak to the service centre. There is an error in the appliance, because a cookware boils dry or comes on you use not correct cookware. The protection against become too hot for the cooking zone operates. The Automatic Switch Off op- erates. Deactivate the appliance. Remove the hot cookware. After, ap- proximately 30 seconds activate the cooking zone again. should go out of the display, residual heat indicator can stay. Let the cookware become sufficiently cool and check it with the sec- tion Cookware for the induction cooking zone. If you tried the above solutions and cannot repair the problem, speak to your dealer or the customer service. Give the data from the rating plate, three digit letter code for the glass ceramic (it is in the corner of the glass surface) and an error message that comes on. Make sure, you operated the appliance correctly. If not the servicing by a customer service technician or dealer will not be free of charge, also during the warranty period. The instruc- tions about the customer service and conditions of guarantee are in the guarantee booklet. ENVIRONMENT CONCERNS The symbol on the product or on its packaging indicates that this product may not be treated as household waste. Instead it should be taken to the appropriate collection point for the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. By ensuring this product is disposed of correctly, you will help prevent potential negative consequences for the Problem Possible cause and remedy There is still residual heat on the cooking zone. Let the cooking zone become sufficiently cool. The highest heat setting is set. The highest heat setting has the same power as the Automatic Heat Up function. The Power management is activated. See the section Power man- agement. The signals are deactivated. Activate the signals (see OffSound Control).
environment and human health, which could otherwise be caused by inappropriate waste handling of this product. For more detailed information about recycling of this product, please contact your local council, your household waste disposal service or the shop where you purchased the product. Packaging material The packaging materials are friendly to the environment and can be recycled. The plastic components are identified by marking: >PE<,>PS<, etc. Discard the packaging materials as household waste at the waste disposal facilities in your municipality. 17
18
19
www.aeg.com/shop 892934768 - C - 352011
