FM/AM Compact Disc Player AUTOESTEREO PARA DISCO COMPACTO Operating Instructions ........................................................................... Mode d’emploi ................................................................................................................ Manual de instrucciones ...................................................................................... POR FAVOR LEA DETALLADAMENTE ESTE MANUAL DE INSTRUCCIONES ANTES DE CONECTAR Y OPERAR ESTE EQUIPO. RECUERDE QUE UN MAL USO DE SU APARATO PODAÍA ANULAR LA GARANTÍA. For assistance and information visit us on the internet at www.us.aiwa.com call toll free 1-800-BUY-AIWA (United States only) CDC-X504MP ©2004 Sony Corporation 3-263-367- 11 (2) US FR ES
Warning This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses, and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: – Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. – Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. – Connect the equipment into an outlet on circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. – Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/ TV technician for help. You are cautioned that any changes or modifications not expressly approved in this manual could void your authority to operate this equipment. CAUTION The use of optical instruments with this product will increase eye hazard. Owner’s Record The model and serial numbers are located on the bottom of the unit. Record these numbers in the space provided below. Refer to these numbers whenever you call upon your Sony dealer regarding this product. Model No. CDC-X504MP Serial No. ____________________________________ PRECAUTIONS If your car has been parked in direct sunlight, allow the unit to cool off before operating it. Power antenna will extend automatically while the unit is operating. 2 If you have any questions or problems concerning your unit that are not covered in this manual, please consult your nearest Sony dealer. Moisture condensation On a rainy day or in a very damp area, moisture condensation may occur inside the lenses and display of the unit. Should this occur, the unit will not operate properly. In such a case, remove the disc and wait for about an hour until the moisture has evaporated. To maintain high sound quality Be careful not to splash juice or other soft drinks onto the unit or discs. For installation and connections, see the supplied installation/connections manual. Notes on discs To keep a disc clean, do not touch its surface. Handle the disc by its edge. Keep your discs in their cases or disc magazines when not in use. Do not subject discs to heat/high temperature. Avoid leaving them in parked cars or on dashboards/rear trays. Do not attach labels, or use discs with sticky ink/ residue. Such discs may stop spinning when used, causing a malfunction, or may ruin the disc. Do not use any discs with labels or stickers attached. The following malfunctions may result from using such discs:
GETTING STARTED Note Some buttons on the unit are assigned two or more functions. For detailed descriptions, refer to the related pages. Resetting the unit Before operating the unit for the first time, or after replacing the car battery or changing the connections, you must reset the unit. Remove the front panel and press the reset button with a pointed object, such as a ballpoint pen. Front panel detached Reset button Note Pressing the reset button will erase the clock and some memorized functions. DEMO (demonstration) mode The unit has an extra display (DEMO) mode which demonstrates the illumination modes of the unit. When you deactivate the unit by pressing (OFF) , the clock is displayed for about 10 seconds, then the unit switches to DEMO mode. To cancel DEMO mode 1 While in DEMO mode, press and hold (PUSH-MENU) until “SET” appears on the display. 2 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “DEMO.” 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to select “DEMO OFF.” To resume DEMO mode, repeat the above and select “DEMO ON” at step 2. 4 Theft protection Take the front panel with you when leaving the car, and keep it in the supplied carrying case. Caution alarm If you turn off the ignition switch to the OFF position without removing the front panel, the caution alarm will beep for a few seconds. If you connect an optional amplifier and do not use the built-in amplifier, the beep tone will be deactivated. To detach the front panel 1 Press Z to remove the disc. 2 Press (OFF) *. 3 Press , then pull it off towards you. (Hold the panel with one hand to prevent accidentally dropping it.) * If your car has no ACC position on the ignition switch, be sure to turn the unit off by pressing (OFF) until the display disappears to avoid car battery drain. To attach the front panel 1 Engage the right side of the front panel to the right catch on the unit. 2 Push the panel forward until it locks. Be sure not to press any buttons and the display window. (OFF)
BASIC OPERATION, AUDIO AND CLOCK ADJUSTMENT (OFF) (PUSH-MENU) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Turning the unit on Press (SOURCE) on the front panel. The unit also turns on when you insert a disc. To deactivate the unit Press (OFF) . The clock appears. After about 10 seconds, the unit switches to DEMO mode (page 4). To turn the unit off Press and hold (OFF) until everything on the display clears. This operation is required to avoid car battery drain, if your car has no ACC position on the ignition switch. Setting the clock The clock uses a 12-hour digital indication. 1 Press and hold (DSPL) until the clock appears. 2 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to set the hour. 3 Press (DSPL) . 4 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to set the minute. 5 Press (DSPL) . To display the clock Press (DSPL) . To return to the former display, press (DSPL) again. (SOURCE) (H-BASS) , (EQ) , (DSPL) , (ATT) Adjusting sound To adjust the volume Turn (PUSH-MENU) . “VOL (volume)” appears on the display. To attenuate the sound Press (ATT) . “ATTON” appears on the display. To restore the previous volume level, press (ATT) again. To adjust sound stage (DSSA*) You can adjust sound stage and tone balance to best serve a particular seat in the car. * DSSA : abbreviation of “Drivers Sound Stage Adjustment” 1 Press (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “DSSA.” 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to select “L” (for the front left seat), “R” (for the front right seat), or “OFF.” To adjust DSSA manually, press (PUSH-MENU) after step 3 above, then press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “BAL” or “FAD,” and turn (PUSH-MENU) to adjust it. To adjust the sound characteristics You can adjust the balance, fader, low pass filter and subwoofer volume. 1 Press (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “BAL,” “FAD,” “LPF” or “SUB.” Each time you press (SEEK) (+), the item changes as follows: LOW *1 t MID *1 t HI *1 t BAL (balance; left-right) t FAD (fader; front-rear) t DSSA t LPF (low pass filter) *2*3 t SUB (subwoofer volume) *2*4 *1 When EQ is activated (page 6) *2 When “SUB” is selected (page 10) *3 The cut off frequency is adjustable to 78 Hz, 125 Hz or OFF. *4 The volume level is adjustable between –10 and +10, or to ATT (attenuated). 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to adjust the selected item. 5
To reinforce the bass sound (H-BASS) Press (H-BASS) . Each time you press (H-BASS) , the H-BASS mode is turned on and off. Note The H-BASS adjustment does not affect the signal output from the AUDIO OUT REAR connectors on the rear panel at the “SUB” (sub-woofer) position. To set the equalizer (EQ) You can select an equalizer curve for 7 music types (HIP-HOP, VOCAL, CLUB, JAZZ, POPS, ROCK, CUSTOM). You can store a different equalizer setting for each source. To select the equalizer curve 1 Press (SOURCE) to select a source (TUNER, CD or AUX). 2 Press (EQ) repeatedly to select the desired equalizer curve. To cancel the equalizing effect, select “OFF.” To adjust the equalizer curve You can adjust and store the equalizer settings for different tone ranges. 1 Follow the steps 1 and 2 above. 2 Press (PUSH-MENU) . 3 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select the desired tone range; “LOW,” “MID,” or “HI.” 4 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to adjust to the desired volume level. The volume level is adjustable from –10 to +10 dB by 1 dB steps. 5 Repeat steps 2 to 4 to adjust the equalizer curve. Note When EQ is set to “OFF,” you cannot adjust the equalizer curve settings. 6 To restore the factory settings You can restore the factory settings for the equalizer curve settings while adjusting them. During adjustment, press and hold (PUSH-MENU) until the equalizer type (such as HIP-HOP) appears on the display.
RADIO OPERATION The unit can store up to 6 stations per band (FM1, FM2, FM3, AM1 and AM2). Caution When tuning in to stations while driving, use Best Tuning Memory to prevent accidents. (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Storing stations automatically – Best Tuning Memory (BTM) 1 Press (SOURCE) repeatedly to select the radio. 2 Press (MODE) repeatedly to select the band. 3 Press and hold (BTM SENS) until “BTM” flashes on the display. The unit stores stations in the order of their frequencies on the number buttons. A beep tone will be heard when the setting is stored. Notes If only a few stations can be received due to weak signals, some number buttons will remain their former settings. When a number is indicated on the display, the unit starts storing stations from the one currently displayed. Receiving the stored stations 1 Press (SOURCE) repeatedly to select the radio. 2 Press (MODE) repeatedly to select the band. 3 Press the number button ( (1) to (6) ) on which the desired station is stored. Button number (SOURCE) Number buttons (MODE) (BTM SENS) Band Frequency Automatic tuning If preset tuning does not work, try the automatic tuning. Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to search for the station. Scanning stops when the unit receives a station. Repeat the operation until the desired station is received. If the automatic tuning stops too frequently Press (BTM SENS) repeatedly until “LOCALON” appears on the display. The “LCL” indicator is displayed. Only the stations with relatively strong signals will be tuned in (local seek mode). To cancel the local seek mode, press (BTM SENS) once or twice so that the “LCL” indicator disappears. If you know the frequency of the station (manual tuning) Press and hold (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to locate the approximate frequency. Then press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) repeatedly to fine adjust to the desired frequency. Monaural mode If FM stereo reception is poor, receive the station in monaural mode. During radio reception, press (BTM SENS) repeatedly until “MONO ON” appears on the display. The “MONO” indicator is displayed. To return to normal radio reception, press (BTM SENS) again. Storing stations manually You can store only the desired stations on any chosen number buttons. 1 Press (SOURCE) repeatedly to select the radio. 2 Press (MODE) repeatedly to select the band. 3 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to tune in to the desired station. 4 Press and hold the desired number button ( (1) to (6) ) until “MEM” appears. 7
CD PLAYER OPERATION In addition to ordinary CD play, you can enjoy the unit’s following features: MP3 files *1 can be played. CD-R/CD-RW which can have a session added can be played. CD TEXT information is displayed when a CD TEXT disc *2 is played. *1 For more information about MP3 files, see “About MP3 files” on page 14. *2 A CD TEXT disc is an audio CD that includes information such as the disc name, artist name, and track names. This information is recorded on the disc. Playing a disc 8
Reading the display When the disc/album/track changes, any prerecorded title *1 of the new disc/album/track is displayed. If the Auto Scroll mode is turned on, names exceeding 8 characters will be scrolled. There are following displayable items: Track number/elapsed playing time Disc name *1 /artist name *2 Album name *3 Track name *1*3 ID3 tag *3 Clock To Press Switch display item (DSPL) *1 “NO NAME” is displayed when there is no prerecorded name to display. *2 Only for CD TEXT discs with the artist name. *3 Only for MP3 files. Only track name/artist name/album name in ID3 tag is displayed. “NO ID3” is displayed when there is no ID3 tag to display. Notes Some characters cannot be displayed. For some CD TEXT discs with very many characters, information may not scroll. This unit cannot display the artist name for each track of a CD TEXT disc. To turn on/off the Auto Scroll mode 1 Press and hold (PUSH-MENU) until “SET” appears on the display. 2 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “A.SCRL.” 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to select “ON” or “OFF.” Notes on MP3 ID3 tag applies to version 1.0, 1.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4. Some characters cannot be displayed. Characters and signs which cannot be displayed appear as “*.” The muximum number of characters for album (folder) name/track (file) names that can be displayed is 64 each. ID3 tag is up to 30 characters (1.0, 1.1, 2.2 and 2.3) or 126 characters (2.4). In the following cases, elapsed playing time may not be displayed accurately. – when an MP3 file of VBR (variable bit rate) is played. – during fast-forward/reverse. 9
OTHER FUNCTIONS (PUSH-MENU) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Using auxiliary equipment You can listen to equipment (such as a cassette, MD, or MP3 portable player) connected to the unit. Refer to the operating instructions for the corresponding equipment for more detailed information. Be sure to remove the inserted CD to prevent possible damage to the unit before connecting the equipment. 1 Connect a cassette/MD/MP3 portable player or other equipment to the unit’s AUX jack (3.5 mm dia.). 2 Press (SOURCE) repeatedly until “AUX” appears on the display. Various settings To align the sound levels (Source Level Adjustor) Volume may vary each time you change the source mode. In this case, you can align each source mode’s volume to almost the same level. 1 Select the source mode to be adjusted. 2 Press and hold (SOURCE) until “LEVEL 0” appears on the display. 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to adjust the level. The volume level is adjustable from –6 to +6 dB by 1 dB steps. 10 (SOURCE) To change the display and beep tone settings You can set the dimmer of the display, and turn on or off the VU level meter and the beep tone. Proceed as follows while the unit is turned on. There are items that cannot be selected if you operate when the unit is deactivated. 1 Press and hold (PUSH-MENU) until “SET” appears on the display. 2 Press (SEEK) (+) or (SEEK) (–) to select “DIM,” “VU” or “BEEP.” Each time you press (SEEK) (+), the item changes as follows: DIM (dimmer) t VU (VU level meter) t A.SCRL* t BEEP (beep tone) * Auto Scroll, available when source is CD (page 9) 3 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to change the setting for the selected item. AUX To select the type of equipment connected to the rear panel You can connect a power amplifier or a sub-woofer to the AUDIO OUT REAR jacks on the rear of the unit. When a power amplifier or a sub-woofer is connected, select the type of the connected equipment correctly. 1 While the unit is deactivated (clock or DEMO is diplayed), press (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Turn (PUSH-MENU) to select “REAR” (for a power amplifier) or “SUB” (for a sub- woofer).
CARD REMOTE CONTROL Names of parts 1 2 3 4 5 1 DSPL button 2 SOURCE button 3 SEEK (+/–) buttons 4 OFF button 5 VOL (+/–) buttons 6 MODE button 7 PRESET/ALBUM (+/–) buttons 8 ATT button Note If the display disappears by pressing (OFF) , it cannot be operated with the remote control unless (SOURCE) on the unit is pressed, or a disc is inserted to activate the unit first. Preparations A lithium battery is installed in the remote control at the factory. Before you use the remote control, be sure to remove the insulating sheet by simply pulling it out. Remote control (back) 6 DSPL MODE ALBUM + + PRESET 7 SOURCE SEEK – SEEK + PRESET – ALBUM – 8 + VOL ATT OFF – Insulating sheet Replacing the battery 1 Insert the tip of a pointed object A into the hole B and pull out the battery holder to remove the lithium battery (CR2025). Battery holder 2 Install a new lithium battery (CR2025)* with the 3 side facing up in the battery holder, and push the battery holder into the unit until it clicks. * Use of any other battery may present a risk of fire or explosion. Note When the infrared receptor on the main unit is exposed to direct sunlight, it may not respond to signals from the remote control. Notes on lithium battery Keep the lithium battery out of the reach of children. Should the battery be swallowed, immediately consult a doctor. Wipe the battery with a dry cloth to assure a good contact. Be sure to observe the correct polarity when installing the battery. Do not hold the battery with metallic tweezers, otherwise a short-circuit may occur. WARNING Battery may explode if mistreated. Do not recharge, disassemble, or dispose of in fire. Remote control (back) B A 11
TROUBLESHOOTING The following checklist will help you remedy problems you may encounter with your unit. Before going through the checklist below, check the connection and operating procedures. General No sound. Turn (PUSH-MENU) to the right to adjust the volume. Cancel the ATT function. Set the fader control to the center position for a 2- speaker system. The contents of the memory have been erased. The reset button has been pressed. t Store again into the memory. The power lead or battery has been disconnected. The power connecting lead is not connected properly. No beep sound. The beep sound is canceled (page 10). An optional power amplifier is connected and you are not using the built-in amplifier. The display disappears from/does not appear on the display window. The display disappears if you press and hold (OFF) . t Press and hold (OFF) again until the display appears. Remove the front panel and clean the connectors. See “Cleaning the connectors” (page 16). Stored stations and correct time are erased. The fuse has blown. Makes noise when the ignition key is in the ON, ACC, or OFF position. The leads are not matched correctly with the car’s accessory power connector. No power is being supplied to the unit. Check the connection. If everything is in order, check the fuse. The car does not have an ACC position. t Press (SOURCE) (or insert a disc) to turn on the unit. The power antenna does not extend. The power antenna does not have a relay box. 12 Radio reception Preset tuning is not possible. Store the correct frequency in the memory. The broadcast signal is too weak. The stations cannot be received. The sound is hampered by noises. Connect a power antenna control lead (blue) or accessory power supply lead (red) to the power supply lead of a car’s antenna booster (only when your car has built-in FM/AM antenna in the rear/side glass). Check the connection of the car antenna. The auto antenna will not go up. t Check the connection of the power antenna control lead. Check the frequency. Automatic tuning is not possible. The local seek mode is set to “ON.” t Set the local seek mode to “OFF” (page 7). The broadcast signal is too weak. t Perform manual tuning. A program broadcast in stereo is heard in monaural. t Cancel monaural reception mode (page 7).
CD play A CD cannot be inserted. Another CD is already inserted. The CD has been forcibly inserted upside down or in the wrong way. Play does not begin. Defective or dirty CD CD-R/CD-RW that is not finalized. Some CD-Rs/CD-RWs may not play due to its recording equipment or the disc condition. MP3 files cannot be played back. Recording was not performed according to the ISO 9660 level 1 or level 2 format, or the Joliet or Romeo in the expansion format. The file extension “.MP3” is not added to the file name. Files are not stored in MP3 format. MP3 files take longer to play back than others. The following discs take a longer time to start playback. – a disc recorded with complicated tree structure. – a disc recorded in Multi Session. – a disc to which data can be added. A disc is automatically ejected. The ambient temperature exceeds 50˚C (112˚F). The operation buttons do not function. CD will not be ejected. Press the reset button. The sound skips from vibration. The unit is installed at an angle of more than 45˚. The unit is not installed in a sturdy part of the car. The sound skips. Dirty or defective disc. ERROR DISPLAYS/ MESSAGES Error displays The following indications will flash for about 5 seconds, and an alarm sound will be heard. ERROR A CD is dirty or inserted upside down. t Clean or insert the CD correctly. A CD cannot play because of some problem. t Insert another CD. FAILURE The connection of speakers/amplifiers is incorrect. t F 13
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION About MP3 files MP3 (MPEG 1 Audio Layer-3) is a standard technology and format for compressing a sound sequence. The file is compressed to about 1/10 of its original size. Sounds outside the range of human hearing are compressed while the sounds we can hear are not compressed. Notes on discs You can play MP3 files recorded on CD-ROMs, CD-Rs, and CD-RWs. The disc must be in the ISO 9660 *1 level 1 or level 2 format, or Joliet or Romeo in the expansion format. You can use a disc recorded in Multi Session *2 . *1 ISO 9660 Format The most common international standard for the logical format of files and folders on a CD-ROM. There are several specification levels. In Level 1, file names must be in the 8.3 format (no more than 8 characters in the name, no more than 3 characters in the extension “.MP3”) and in capital letters. Folder names can be no longer than 8 characters. There can be no more than 8 nested folder levels. Level 2 specifications allow file names up to 31 characters long. Each folder can have up to 8 trees. For Joliet or Romeo in the expansion format, make sure of the contents of the writing software, etc. *2 Multi Session This is a recording method that enables adding of data using the Track-At-Once method. Conventional CDs begin at a CD control area called the Lead-in and end at an area called Lead-out. A Multi Session CD is a CD having multiple sessions, with each segment from Lead- in to Lead-out regarded as a single session. CD-Extra: The format which records audio (audio CD data) as tracks on session 1, and records data as tracks on session 2. Mixed CD: In this format, data is recorded as track 1, and audio (audio CD data) is recorded as track 2. 14 Notes With formats other than ISO 9660 level 1 and level 2, folder names or file names may not be displayed correctly. When naming, be sure to add the file extension “.MP3” to the file name. If you put the extension “.MP3” to a file other than MP3, the unit cannot recognize the file properly and will generate random noise that could damage your speakers. The following discs take a longer time to start playback. – a disc recorded with complicated tree structure. – a disc recorded in Multi Session. – a disc to which data can be added. Cautions when playing a disc that is recorded in Multi Session When the first track of the first session is audio CD data: Only audio CD data of the first session is played back. Any data in subsequent sessions is skipped. When the first track of the first session is not audio CD data: – If an MP3 file is in the disc, only MP3 file(s) play back and other data is skipped. (Audio CD data is not recognized.) – If no MP3 file is in the disc, “NO MUSIC” is displayed and nothing is played back. (Audio CD data is not recognized.)
The playback order of the MP3 files The playback order of the folders and files is as follows: 1 1 2 6 Tree 1 Tree 2 Tree 3 Tree 4 Tree 5 (root) Folder (album) MP3 file (track) 2 3 3 4 5 5 6 7 7 8 8 Notes A folder that does not include an MP3 file is skipped. When you insert a disc with many trees, it takes a longer time to start playback. We recommend that you make only one or two trees for each disc. Maximum folder number: 150 (including root folder and empty folders) The maximum number of MP3 files and folders that can be contained in a disc: 300 When a file/folder name contains many characters, this number may become less than 300. To specify a desired playback order, before the folder or file name, input the order by number (e.g., “01,” “02”), then record contents onto a disc. (The order differs depending on the writing software.) 4 9 15
Maintenance Cleaning the front panel Wipe the surface with a soft, dry cloth. Do not use liquid cleaners or aerosol cleaners. Cleaning the connectors The connectors need to be cleaned occasionally. Wipe the surface of the connectors with a cotton swab slightly moistened with alcohol. Main unit Back of the front panel Notes For safety, turn off the ignition before cleaning the connectors, and remove the key from the ignition switch. Never touch the connectors directly with your fingers or with any metal device. Fuse replacement When replacing the fuse, be sure to use one matching the amperage rating stated on the original fuse. If the fuse blows, check the power connection and replace the fuse. If the fuse blows again after replacement, there may be an internal malfunction. In such a case, consult your nearest Sony dealer. 16
Specifications AUDIO POWER SPECIFICATIONS POWER OUTPUT AND TOTAL HARMONIC DISTORTION 23.2 watts per channel minimum continuous average power into 4 ohms, 4 channels driven from 20 Hz to 20 kHz with no more than 5% total harmonic distortion. Tuner section FM Tuning range 87.5 - 107.9 MHz Antenna terminal External antenna connector Intermediate frequency 10.7 MHz/450 kHz Usable sensitivity 9 dBf Selectivity 75 dB at 400 kHz Signal-to-noise ratio 67 dB (stereo), 69 dB (mono) Harmonic distortion at 1 kHz 0.5 % (stereo), 0.3 % (mono) Separation 35 dB at 1 kHz Frequency response 30 - 15,000 Hz AM Tuning range 530 - 1,710 kHz Antenna terminal External antenna connector Intermediate frequency 10.7 MHz/450 kHz Sensitivity 30 µ V CD player section Signal-to-noise ratio 120 dB Frequency response 10 - 20,000 Hz Wow and flutter Below measurable limit Power amplifier section Outputs Speaker outputs (sure seal connectors) Speaker impedance 4 - 8 ohms Maximum power output 52 W × 4 (at 4 ohms) General Outputs Audio outputs terminal (rear/sub switchable) Power antenna relay control terminal Power amplifier control terminal Inputs Antenna input terminal Tone controls Low: ±10 dB at 60 Hz (HIP-HOP) Mid: ±10 dB at 1 kHz (HIP-HOP) High: ±10 dB at 10 kHz (HIP-HOP) Power requirements 12 V DC car battery (negative ground) Dimensions Approx. 178 × 50 × 176 mm (7 1 / 8 × 2 × 7 in.) (w/h/d) Mounting dimensions Approx. 182 × 53 × 161 mm (7 1 / 4 × 2 1 / 8 × 6 3 / 8 in.) (w/h/d) Mass Approx. 1.2 kg (2 lb 10 oz) Supplied accessories Parts for installation and connections Front panel case (1) Card remote control RM-Z304 Design and specifications are subject to change without notice. 17
2 Remarques sur les disques Pour que le disque reste propre, ne touchez pas sa surface. Saisissez le disque par les bords. Rangez vos disques dans leur boîtier ou dans un chargeur lorsque vous ne vous en servez pas. Ne soumettez pas les disques à des températures élevées. Evitez de les laisser dans un véhicule en stationnement, sur le tableau de bord ou la plage arrière. Ne collez pas d’étiquettes sur les disques et n’utilisez pas de disques rendus collants par de l’encre ou des résidus. De tels disques peuvent s’arrêter de tourner en cours de lecture et provoquer des problèmes de fonctionnement ou être endommagés.
Avant la lecture, nettoyez les disques avec un chiffon de nettoyage disponible dans le commerce. Essuyez chaque disque en partant du centre vers l’extérieur. N’utilisez pas de solvants tels que de l’essence, du diluant, des produits de nettoyage vendus dans le commerce ou des sprays antistatiques destinés aux disques analogiques. Disques de musique encodés à l’aide d’une technologie de protection des droits d’auteur Cet appareil est conçu pour la lecture des disques conformes à la norme Compact Disc (CD). Dernièrement, certaines maisons de disques ont lancé sur le marché divers types de disques de musique encodés avec des technologies de protection des droits d’auteur. Notez que, parmi ces types de disques, certains ne sont pas conformes à la norme CD. La lecture de ces disques peut alors être impossible avec cet appareil. Remarques sur les CD-R (CD enregistrables) et les CD-RW (CD réinscriptibles) Cet appareil permet la lecture des types de disques suivants : Type de disques Symbole indiqué sur le disque CD audio Fichiers MP3 Fichiers MP3 Il est possible que cet appareil ne puisse pas lire certains CD-R ou CD-RW (en fonction de l’appareil utilisé pour l’enregistrement ou de l’état du disque). Ce lecteur ne permet pas la lecture de CD-R ou de CD-RW non finalisés*. Ce lecteur permet la lecture de fichiers MP3 copiés sur des disques CD-ROM, CD-R (CD enregistrables) et CD-RW (CD réinscriptibles). Il est possible de lire des CD-R ou CD-RW auxquels une session peut être ajoutée. * Processus nécessaire pour qu’un disque CD-R ou CD-RW enregistré puisse être lu sur un lecteur CD audio. TABLE DES MATIERES PRÉPARATIFS Réinitialisation de l’appareil .............................. 4 Mode DEMO (démonstration) .......................... 4 Protection antivol ................................................ 4 FONCTIONNEMENT DE BASE, RÉGLAGE DU SON ET DE L’HEURE Mise en marche de l’appareil ............................. 5 Réglage de l’heure ............................................... 5 Réglage du son ..................................................... 5 FONCTIONNEMENT DE LA RADIO Mémorisation automatique des stations .......... 7 Réception des stations mémorisées .................. 7 Mémorisation manuelle des stations ................ 7 FONCTIONNEMENT DU LECTEUR DE CD Lecture d’un disque ............................................ 8 Signification de l’affichage ................................. 9 AUTRES FONCTIONS Utilisation d’un autre appareil ........................ 10 Divers réglages .................................................. 10 MINI-TÉLÉCOMMANDE Noms des éléments ........................................... 11 Préparatifs........................................................... 11 Remplacement de la pile .................................. 11 DEPANNAGE Généralités .......................................................... 12 Réception radio .................................................. 12 Lecture de CD .................................................... 13 AFFICHAGE DES ERREURS ET MESSAGES Affichage des erreurs ........................................ 13 Messages ............................................................. 13 INFORMATIONS COMPLEMENTAIRES A propos des fichiers MP3 ............................... 14 Entretien .............................................................. 16 Démontage de l’appareil .................................. 16 Spécifications ...................................................... 17 3
PRÉPARATIFS Remarque Certaines touches de l’appareil ont plusieurs fonctions. Pour le détail à ce sujet, reportez-vous aux pages appropriées. Réinitialisation de l’appareil L’appareil doit être réinitialisé la première fois que vous l’utilisez ou après le remplacement de la batterie de la voiture ou le changement des connexions. Détachez le panneau avant et appuyez sur le bouton de réinitialisation avec un objet pointu, par exemple un stylo. Panneau avant détaché Bouton de réinitialisation Remarque L’heure et les fonctions mémorisées sont supprimées lorsque vous appuyez sur le bouton de réinitialisation. Mode DEMO (démonstration) Cet appareil présente un mode d’affichage (DEMO) qui montre les différents modes d’éclairage. Lorsque vous arrêtez l’appareil en appuyant sur (OFF) , l’heure est indiquée pendant 10 secondes environ, puis l’appareil se met en mode DEMO. Pour annuler le mode DEMO 1 En mode DEMO, appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) jusqu’à ce que « SET » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. 2 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « DEMO ». 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour sélectionner « DEMO OFF ». Pour revenir au mode DEMO, refaites les mêmes opérations et sélectionnez « DEMO ON » à l’étape 2. Protection antivol Emportez le panneau avant et rangez-le dans l’étui fourni lorsque vous quittez votre voiture. 4 Avertisseur Si vous coupez le contact sans enlever le panneau avant, l’avertisseur bipe pendant quelques secondes. Si vous raccordez un amplificateur optionnel et n’utilisez pas l’amplificateur intégré, l’avertisseur sera désactivé. Pour détacher le panneau avant 1 Appuyez sur Z pour retirer le disque. 2 Appuyez sur (OFF) *. 3 Appuyez sur puis tirez sur le panneau. (Tenez-le d’une main pour l’empêcher de tomber.) * Si le commutateur de contact de votre véhicule n’est pas doté d’une position ACC (accessoires), veillez à appuyer sur (OFF) jusqu’à ce que l’affichage disparaisse pour éviter d’user la batterie du véhicule. Pour rattacher le panneau avant 1 Emboîtez le côté droit du panneau avant dans le cliquet droit de l’appareil. 2 Appuyez sur le panneau avant de sorte qu’il se verrouille. Attention de ne pas appuyer sur une touche et sur la fenêtre d’affichage. 2 Remarques Si vous retirez le panneau avant alors que l’appareil est sous tension, l’alimentation est automatiquement coupée pour éviter d’endommager les haut-parleurs. N’exposez pas le panneau avant à des températures élevées ou à l’humidité. Evitez de le laisser dans un véhicule en stationnement, sur le tableau de bord ou la plage arrière. Ne posez rien sur la face interne du panneau avant. (OFF) 1
FONCTIONNEMENT DE BASE, RÉGLAGE DU SON ET DE L’HEURE (OFF) (PUSH-MENU) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Mise en marche de l’appareil Appuyez sur (SOURCE) sur le panneau avant. L’appareil se met aussi en marche lorsque vous insérez un disque. Pour arrêter l’appareil Appuyez sur (OFF) . L’heure apparaît. Dans les 10 secondes qui suivent, l’appareil se met en mode DEMO (page 4). Pour éteindre l’appareil Appuyez sur (OFF) jusqu’à ce que l’affichage s’éteigne. L’appareil doit être éteint pour que la batterie de la voiture ne s’use pas, si le commutateur de la voiture n’a pas de position ACC. Réglage de l’heure L’heure est indiquée sur 12 heures. 1 Appuyez sur (DSPL) jusqu’à ce que l’heure apparaisse. 2 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour régler les heures. 3 Appuyez sur (DSPL) . 4 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour régler les minutes. 5 Appuyez sur (DSPL) . Pour afficher l’heure Appuyez sur (DSPL) . Pour revenir à l’affichage antérieur, appuyez une nouvelle fois sur (DSPL) . (SOURCE) (H-BASS) , (EQ) , (DSPL) , (ATT) Réglage du son Pour régler le volume Tournez (PUSH-MENU) . « VOL (volume) » apparaît dans la fenêtre d’affichage. Pour atténuer le son Appuyez sur (ATT) . « ATTON » apparaît dans la fenêtre d’affichage. Pour revenir au volume antérieur, appuyez une nouvelle fois sur (ATT) . Pour régler l’étage sonore (DSSA*) Vous pouvez régler l’étage sonore et la balance du son pour une place particulière de la voiture. * DSSA : Abréviation de « Drivers Sound Stage Ajustement » 1 Appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « DSSA ». 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour sélectionner « L » (pour le siège avant gauche», « R » (pour le siège avant droit) ou « OFF ». Pour régler manuellement le DSSA, appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) après l’étape 3 ci-dessus, puis appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « BAL » ou « FAD », et tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour effectuer le réglage. Pour régler les caractéristiques du son Vous pouvez régler la balance, le fader, le filtre passe-bas et le volume du grave. 1 Appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « BAL », « FAD », « LPF » ou « SUB ». A chaque pression de (SEEK) (+), le paramètre change comme suit : LOW *1 t MID *1 t HI *1 t BAL (balance, gauche-droite) t FAD (fader, avant-arrière) t DSSA t LPF (filtre passe-bas) *2*3 t SUB (volume du grave) *2*4 *1 Lorsque l’égaliseur est activé (page 6) *2 Lorsque « SUB » est sélectionné (page 10) *3 La fréquence de coupure peut être réglée sur 78 Hz, 125 Hz ou OFF. *4 Le volume peut être réglé entre –10 et +10, ou sur ATT (atténué). 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour régler le paramètre sélectionné. 5
Pour renforcer les sons graves (H-BASS) Appuyez sur (H-BASS) . A chaque pression de (H-BASS) , le mode H-BASS est activé ou désactivé. Remarque En position « SUB » (caisson de grave), le réglage H-BASS n’a aucune influence sur le signal fourni par les prises AUDIO OUT REAR sur le panneau arrière. Pour régler l’égaliseur (EQ) Vous pouvez sélectionner une courbe d’égalisation pour 7 types de musique (HIP-HOP, VOCAL, CLUB, JAZZ, POPS, ROCK, CUSTOM). Une courbe d’égalisation différente peut être sauvegardée pour chaque source. Pour sélectionner la courbe d’égalisation 1 Appuyez sur (SOURCE) pour sélectionner une source (TUNER, CD ou AUX). 2 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (EQ) pour sélectionner la courbe d’égalisation souhaitée. Pour annuler l’effet d’égalisation, sélectionnez « OFF ». Pour ajuster la courbe d’égalisation Vous pouvez aussi ajuster la courbe d’égalisation et sauvegarder les réglages effectués pour différentes plages sonores. 1 Effectuez les opérations 1 et 2 ci-dessus. 2 Appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) . 3 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner la plage souhaitée : « LOW », « MID » ou « HI ». 4 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour régler le volume. Le volume peut être réglé de –10 à +10 dB par incréments de 1 dB. 5 Répétez les étapes 2 à 4 pour ajuster la courbe d’égalisation. Remarque Lorsque EQ est réglé sur « OFF », la courbe d’égalisation ne peut pas être ajustée. 6 Pour rétablir les réglages usine Vous pouvez rétablir les réglages usine d’une courbe d’égalisation pendant le réglage. Pendant le réglage, appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) jusqu’à ce que le type de courbe (ex. HIP-HOP) apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage.
FONCTIONNEMENT DE LA RADIO L’appareil peut mémoriser 6 stations par bande (FM1, FM2, FM3, AM1 et AM2). Attention Pour accorder une station pendant la conduite, utilisez la mémorisation des meilleures stations (BTM) pour éviter tout accident. (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Mémorisation automatique des stations – Mémorisation des meilleures stations (BTM) 1 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (SOURCE) pour sélectionner la radio. 2 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (MODE) pour sélectionner la bande. 3 Appuyez sur (BTM SENS) jusqu’à ce que « BTM » clignote dans la fenêtre d’affichage. Les stations sont mémorisées dans l’ordre de leurs fréquences sur les touches numériques. Lorsque le réglage est sauvegardé, un bip retentit. Remarques Si vous ne pouvez recevoir que quelques stations parce que les signaux ne sont pas assez puissants, certaines touches garderont leur réglage antérieur. Si un numéro est indiqué dans la fenêtre d’affichage, la mémorisation des stations commencera par ce numéro. Réception des stations mémorisées 1 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (SOURCE) pour sélectionner la radio. 2 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (MODE) pour sélectionner la bande. 3 Appuyez sur la touche numérique ( (1) à (6) ) sur laquelle la station doit être mémorisée. (SOURCE) (MODE) (BTM SENS) Accord automatique Si vous ne pouvez pas accorder les stations mémorisées, essayez avec l’accord automatique. Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour rechercher une station. La recherche s’arrête lorsque l’appareil reçoit une station. Répétez l’opération jusqu’à ce que la station souhaitée soit reçue. Si l’accord automatique s’arrête trop fréquemment Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (BTM SENS) jusqu’à ce que « LOCALON » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. L’indicateur « LCL » s’affiche. Dans ce mode, seules les stations émettant des signaux relativement puissants sont accordées (mode de recherche locale). Pour annuler le mode de recherche locale, appuyez une ou deux fois sur (BTM SENS) de sorte que l’indicateur « LCL » disparaisse. Si vous connaissez la fréquence de la station (accord manuel) Appuyez en continu sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour localiser rapidement la fréquence approximative. Appuyez ensuite plusieurs fois de suite sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour ajuster finement la fréquence. Mode monophonique Si la réception stéréo FM est mauvaise, recevez la station en monophonie. Pendant la réception radio, appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (BTM SENS) jusqu’à ce que « MONO ON » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. L’indicateur « MONO » s’affiche. Pour revenir à la réception normale, appuyez une nouvelle fois sur (BTM SENS) . Mémorisation manuelle des stations Vous pouvez mémoriser les stations souhaitées sur des touches numériques précises. 1 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (SOURCE) pour sélectionner la radio. 2 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (MODE) pour sélectionner la bande. 3 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour accorder la station souhaitée. 4 Appuyez sur la touche numérique souhaitée ( (1) à (6) ) jusqu’à ce que « MEM » apparaisse. 7
FONCTIONNEMENT DU LECTEUR DE CD Vous pouvez écouter non seulement des CD ordinaires mais aussi les fichiers ou disques suivants : Fichiers MP3 *1 ; CD-R/CD-RW auquel une session peut être ajoutée ; CD TEXT *2 et afficher les informations qu’ils contiennent. *1 Pour le détail sur les fichiers MP3, voir « A propos des fichiers MP3 » à la page 14. *2 Un disque CD TEXT est un CD audio contenant des informations, telles que le nom du disque, le nom de l’artiste et les noms des plages. Ces informations sont enregistrées sur le disque. Lecture d’un disque (OFF) (PUSH-MENU) (SHUF) (REP) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Insérez un disque avec la face imprimée orientée vers le haut. « CD » apparaît dans la fenêtre d’affichage et la lecture commence. Si un disque est déjà inséré, appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (SOURCE) jusqu’à ce que « CD » apparaisse pour commencer la lecture. En mode de lecture normale, la lecture se poursuit sur la première plage lorsque la dernière plage a été lue. 8 (SOURCE) (DSPL) (6) (ALBUM+) (5) (ALBUM–) Pour Appuyez sur Arrêter la lecture Z ou (OFF) Ejecter le disque Z Sauter des plages (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) ( . / > ) (une fois par plage) Avancer/reculer rapidement Sauter des albums* (5) (ALBUM –) ou (6) (ALBUM +) (Maintenir la pression jusqu’à l’album souhaité.) * Disponible seulement pendant la lecture d’un fichier MP3. Remarques Les disques en mauvais état ne pourront pas être lus. Avec certains CD-R ou CD-RW, la lecture ne commence pas instantément. Il ne s’agit pas d’une anomalie. Pendant la lecture de la première/dernière plage, la dernière/première plage est localisée lorsque vous appuyez sur (SEEK) (–) ou (SEEK) (+). Si vous écoutez un fichier MP3 à haut débit, par exemple 320 kbps, le son peut être intermittent. Z Lecture répétée et aléatoire Vous pouvez sélectionner : REPTRACK – pour répéter la plage actuelle. REPALBM* – pour répéter les plages de l’album actuel. SHUFALBM* – pour écouter les plages de l’album actuel dans un ordre aléatoire. SHUFDISC – pour écouter toutes les plages du disque dans un ordre aléatoire. * Disponible seulement lorsqu’un fichier MP3 est lu. Pendant la lecture, appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (REP) ou (SHUF) jusqu’à ce que le mode de répétition ou aléatoire apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. Pour revenir à la lecture normale, sélectionnez « REPOFF » ou « SHUFOFF ». Remarque Pendant la lecture aléatoire, la touche . ne permet de revenir qu’au début de la plage actuelle, pas à la plage précédente. (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) ( m / M ) (Maintenir la pression jusqu’au passage souhaité.)
Signification de l’affichage Lorsque le disque, l’album ou la plage change, le nom préenregistré *1 du nouveau disque, l’album ou de la plage s’affiche. Si le mode de défilement automatique est activé, les noms de plus de 8 caractères défilent. Les indications suivantes apparaissent dans la fenêtre d’affichage. Numéro de la plage/Temps de lecture écoulé Nom du disque *1 / Nom de l’artiste *2 Nom de l’album *3 Nom de la plage *1*3 Etiquette ID3 *3 Heure Pour Appuyez sur Changer d’indication (DSPL) *1 « NO NAME » s’affiche si aucun nom n’est préenregistré sur le disque. *2 Seulement pour les disques CD TEXT avec nom d’artiste. *3 Seulement pour les fichiers MP3. Seul le nom de plage/d’artiste/d’album de l’étiquette ID3 s’affiche. « NO ID3 » s’affiche si aucune étiquette ID3 n’est enregistrée. Remarques Certains caractères ne peuvent pas être affichés. Pour les disques CD TEXT contenant de nombreux caractères, les informations risquent de ne pas défiler. Cet appareil ne peut pas afficher le nom de l’artiste de chaque plage d’un disque CD TEXT. Pour activer/désactiver le mode de défilement 1 Appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) jusqu’à ce que « SET » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. 2 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « A.SCRL ». 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour sélectionner « ON » ou « OFF ». Remarques sur les fichiers MP3 La fonction d’étiquette (tag) ID3 est applicable aux versions 1.0, 1.1, 2.2, 2.3 et 2.4. Certains caractères ne peuvent pas être affichés. « * » apparaît à la place des caractères et des signes qui ne peuvent pas être affichés. Un maximum de 64 caractères peuvent être affichés pour chaque nom d’album (dossier)/ plage (fichier). L’étiquette ID3 peut contenir jusqu’à 30 caractères (1.0, 1.1, 2.2 et 2.3) ou 126 caractères (2.4). Le temps de lecture écoulé qui s’affiche peut être inexact dans les cas suivants : – lors de la lecture d’un fichier MP3 à débit variable (VBR) ; – pendant la recherche avant ou arrière rapide. 9
AUTRES FONCTIONS (PUSH-MENU) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Utilisation d’un autre appareil Vous pouvez raccorder un autre appareil (lecteur de cassette, MD ou MP3 portable) à cet appareil. Reportez-vous au mode d’emploi de cet appareil pour le détail. Avant de raccorder un autre appareil, enlevez le CD inséré pour ne pas endommager l’appareil. 1 Raccordez un lecteur de cassette/MD/MP3 portable ou un autre appareil à la prise AUX de cet appareil (3,5 mm de diamètre). 2 Appuyez plusieurs fois de suite sur (SOURCE) jusqu’à ce que « AUX » apparaisse. Divers réglages Pour aligner les niveaux sonores (Ajustage des niveaux des sources) Le volume peut être différent selon la source sélectionnée. Pour que le volume de toutes les sources soit approximativement au même niveau, vous pouvez aligner leurs niveaux. 1 Sélectionnez la source dont le niveau sonore doit être ajusté. 2 Appuyez sur (SOURCE) jusqu’à ce que « LEVEL 0 » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour ajuster le niveau. Le niveau peut être réglé de –6 à +6 dB par incréments de 1 dB. 10 (SOURCE) Pour changer les réglages d’affichage et de bips La luminosité de l’affichage peut être ajustée et l’indicateur de niveau VU et les bips peuvent être activés ou désactivés. Pour ce faire, procédez de la façon suivante lorsque l’appareil est allumé. Certains paramètres ne peuvent pas être sélectionnés lorsque l’appareil est éteint. 1 Appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) jusqu’à ce que « SET » apparaisse dans la fenêtre d’affichage. 2 Appuyez sur (SEEK) (+) ou (SEEK) (–) pour sélectionner « DIM », « VU » ou « BEEP ». A chaque pression de (SEEK) (+), le paramètre change comme suit : DIM (variateur) t VU (indicateur de niveau) t A.SCRL* t BEEP (bip) * Défilement automatique, disponible lorsqu’un CD est sélectionné comme source (page 9). 3 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour changer le réglage du paramètre sélectionné. AUX Pour sélectionner le type d’appareil raccordé au panneau arrière Vous pouvez raccorder un amplificateur de puissance ou un caisson de grave aux prises AUDIO OUT REAR à l’arrière de l’appareil. Lorsqu’un amplificateur de puissance ou un caisson de grave est raccordé, sélectionnez correctement le type d’appareil raccordé. 1 Lorsque l’appareil est désactivé (l’heure ou DEMO est affiché), appuyez sur (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Tournez (PUSH-MENU) pour sélectionner « REAR » (pour un amplificateur de puissance) ou « SUB » (pour un caisson de grave).
MINI-TÉLÉCOMMANDE Noms des éléments 1 2 3 4 5 1 Touche DSPL 2 Touche SOURCE 3 Touches SEEK (+/–) 4 Touche OFF 5 Touches VOL (+/–) 6 Touche MODE 7 Touches PRESET/ALBUM (+/–) 8 Touche ATT Remarque Si l’affichage a été éteint avec la touche (OFF) , il faut appuyer sur la touche (SOURCE) de l’appareil ou insérer un disque pour remettre l’appareil en marche et pouvoir utiliser la télécommande. Préparatifs Une pile au lithium a été installée dans la télécommande en usine. Avant d’utiliser la télécommande, enlevez la feuille isolante en tirant simplement dessus. Télécommande (arrière) 6 DSPL MODE ALBUM + + PRESET 7 SOURCE SEEK – SEEK + PRESET – ALBUM – 8 + VOL ATT OFF – Feuille isolante Remplacement de la pile 1 Insérez l’extrémité d’un objet pointu A dans l’orifice B et sortez le porte-pile pour enlever la pile au lithium (CR2025). 2 Installez une pile au lithium neuve (CR2025)* dans le porte-pile avec la face 3 orientée vers le haut, et remettez le porte-pile dans la télécommande en le poussant jusqu’à ce qu’il s’enclenche. Télécommande (arrière) B Porte-pile A 11
DEPANNAGE La liste de contrôle suivante vous aidera à remédier aux problèmes qui peuvent se présenter. Avant de passer en revue cette liste, vérifiez les raccordements et les diverses procédures. Généralités Aucun son. Tournez (PUSH-MENU) vers la droite pour régler le volume. Désactivez la fonction ATT. Dans un système à 2 haut-parleurs, réglez la commande d’équilibre avant-arrière sur la position médiane. Le contenu de la mémoire a été effacé. Vous avez appuyé sur le bouton de réinitialisation. t Mémorisez de nouveau les données souhaitées. Le cordon d’alimentation ou la batterie a été déconnecté. Le cordon d’alimentation n’est pas raccordé correctement. Aucun bip. Le bip est désactivé (page 10). Un amplificateur de puissance en option est raccordé et vous n’utilisez pas l’amplificateur intégré. L’affichage disparaît de la fenêtre d’affichage ou il n’apparaît pas. L’affichage s’éteint si vous maintenez la touche (OFF) enfoncée. t Maintenez de nouveau la touche (OFF) enfoncée jusqu’à ce que l’affichage apparaisse. Retirez le panneau avant et nettoyez les connecteurs. Pour plus de détails, voir « Nettoyage des connecteurs » (page 16). Les stations mémorisées et l’heure sont effacées. Le fusible a fondu. Bruit lorsque la clé de contact est en position ON, ACC ou OFF. Les fils ne sont pas raccordés correctement au connecteur d’alimentation du véhicule destiné aux accessoires. L’appareil n’est pas alimenté. Vérifiez le raccordement. Si tout est en ordre, vérifiez le fusible. Le véhicule n’est pas équipé d’une position ACC. t Appuyez sur (SOURCE) (ou insérez un disque) pour allumer l’appareil. L’antenne électrique ne se déploie pas. L’antenne électrique ne dispose pas d’un boîtier de relais. 12 Réception radio Impossible de capter une présélection. Enregistrez la fréquence correcte dans la mémoire. Le signal capté est trop faible. Impossible de capter des stations. Le son comporte des parasites. Raccordez un fil de commande d’antenne électrique (bleu) ou un fil d’alimentation d’accessoire (rouge) au câble d’alimentation de l’amplificateur d’antenne de la voiture (uniquement si votre voiture est équipée d’une antenne FM/AM intégrée dans la vitre arrière/ latérale). Vérifiez le raccordement de l’antenne du véhicule. L’antenne automatique ne se déploie pas. t Vérifiez le raccordement du fil de commande de l’antenne électrique. Vérifiez la fréquence. Le réglage automatique des stations est impossible. Le mode de recherche locale est réglé sur « ON ». t Réglez le mode de recherche locale sur « OFF » (page 7). Le signal capté est trop faible. t Réglez manuellement la fréquence. Une émission stéréo est entendue en mono. t Désactivez le mode de réception mono (page 7).
Lecture de CD Impossible d’introduire un disque. Un autre CD est déjà en place. Le CD a été introduit de force à l’envers ou dans le mauvais sens. La lecture ne commence pas. Disque CD défectueux ou souillé CD-R ou CD-RW non finalisé. Certains CD-R ou CD-RW peuvent ne pas être lus en raison de l’appareil utilisé pour l’enregistrement ou de l’état du disque. Impossible de lire des fichiers MP3. L’enregistrement n’a pas été réalisé selon la norme ISO 9660 niveau 1 ou 2, ni le format d’extension Joliet ou Romeo. Le nom du fichier ne porte pas l’extension « .MP3 ». Les fichiers ne sont pas sauvegardés au format MP3. Certains fichiers MP3 exigent un délai plus long que d’autres avant le début de la lecture. La lecture des types de disques suivants exige un délai de démarrage plus long : – disques comportant une hiérarchie de dossiers complexe ; – disques enregistrés en multisession ; – disques auxquels il est possible d’ajouter des données. Un disque est automatiquement éjecté. La température ambiante dépasse 50˚C (112˚F). Les touches de commande sont inopérantes. Impossible d’éjecter le CD. Appuyez sur le bouton de réinitialisation. Le son est irrégulier en raison de vibrations. L’appareil est installé suivant un angle de plus de 45˚. L’appareil n’est pas installé à un endroit suffisamment stable du véhicule. Coupures de son. Le disque est sale ou défectueux. AFFICHAGE DES ERREURS ET MESSAGES Affichage des erreurs Les indications suivantes clignotent environ 5 secondes et une alarme retentit. ERROR Le CD est sale ou inséré à l’envers. t Nettoyez le CD ou insérez-le correctement. Le CD ne peut pas être lu en raison de certains problèmes. t Insérez-en un autre. FAILURE Les haut-parleurs ou les amplificateurs ne sont pas raccordés correctement. t Reportez-vous au manuel d’installation de cet appareil pour vérifier les raccordements. HI TEMP La température ambiante dépasse 50˚C (112˚F). t Attendez que la température descende en dessous de 50˚C (112˚F). NO MUSIC Un CD qui n’est pas un fichier de musique a été inséré dans le lecteur. t Insérez un CD de musique dans le lecteur. OFFSET Il est possible qu’il y ait un problème de fonctionnement. t Vérifiez le raccordement. Si le message d’erreur reste affiché, consultez votre revendeur Sony le plus proche. RESET Le lecteur CD ne peut pas fonctionner en raison de certains problèmes. t Appuyez sur le bouton de réinitialisation. Messages L.SEEK +/– Le mode de recherche locale est activé en cours de recherche automatique des fréquences (page 7). « » ou « » Vous avez atteint le début ou la fin du disque et vous ne pouvez pas aller plus loin. Si ces solutions ne permettent pas de remédier à la situation, consultez votre revendeur Sony le plus proche. 13
INFORMATIONS COMPLEMENTAIRES A propos des fichiers MP3 La technologie MP3 (MPEG 1 couche audio 3) est un format de compression de séquences audio. Il permet la compression des fichiers audio à 1/10 e de leur taille normale. Les sons qui ne sont pas perçus par l’oreille humaine sont comprimés, alors que les sons audibles ne le sont pas. Remarques sur les disques Ce lecteur permet la lecture de fichiers MP3 copiés sur des disques CD-ROM, CD-R (CD enregistrables) et CD-RW (CD réinscriptibles). Le disque doit être enregistré soit au format ISO 9660 *1 niveau 1 ou 2, soit au format d’extension Joliet ou Romeo. Le lecteur peut également lire des disques enregistrés en multisession *2 . *1 Format ISO 9660 Le format ISO 9660 est la norme internationale la plus utilisée pour l’organisation des fichiers et des dossiers sur CD-ROM. La structure normalisée compte plusieurs niveaux. Au niveau 1, les noms des fichiers doivent être écrits en majuscules, au format 8,3 (nom de 8 caractères ou moins, extension de 3 caractères ou moins, ex. « .MP3 »). Les noms de dossiers ne peuvent pas compter plus de 8 caractères. La hiérarchie de dossiers ne peut pas compter plus de 8 niveaux. La norme de niveau 2 permet d’établir des noms de fichiers d’une longueur de 31 caractères maximum. Chaque dossier peut compter jusqu’à 8 hiérarchies. Avec les extensions Joliet et Romeo, vérifiez bien le contenu du logiciel de copie et les autres conditions. *2 Multisession Cette technologie de copie permet l’ajout de données par la méthode Track-At-Once. La partie utile des CD ordinaires commence par une zone de contrôle, (amorce de début) et se termine par une autre zone de contrôle (amorce de fin). Un CD multisession est composé de plusieurs sessions de copie distinctes. Chacune de ces sessions commence par une amorce de début et se termine par une amorce de fin distinctes. CD-Extra : Format permettant de copier des données audio (CD audio) sous forme de plages dans la session 1 et d’autres types de données sous forme de plages dans la session 2. CD mixte : Format permettant d’enregistrer des données dans la plage 1 et des données audio (CD audio) dans la plage 2. 14 Remarques Lors de la lecture de disques enregistrés dans d’autres formats que les formats ISO 9660 niveau 1 et niveau 2, les noms de dossiers ou de fichiers peuvent ne pas s’afficher correctement. Lors de l’identification, veillez à ajouter l’extension « .MP3 » au nom de chaque fichier. Si l’extension « .MP3 » est ajoutée au nom d’un fichier qui n’est pas de format MP3, l’appareil ne peut pas reconnaître ce fichier et génère des parasites sonores aléatoires qui risquent d’endommager les haut-parleurs. La lecture des types de disques suivants exige un délai de démarrage plus long : – disques comportant une hiérarchie de dossiers complexe ; – disques enregistrés en multisession ; – disques auxquels il est possible d’ajouter des données. Précautions à prendre lors de la lecture de disques enregistrés en multisession Lorsque la première plage de la première session est composée de données de CD audio : Seules les données de CD audio de la première session sont reproduites. Toutes les données des sessions suivantes sont ignorées. Lorsque la première plage de la première session n’est pas composée de données de CD audio : – Si le disque contient au moins un fichier MP3, seul(s) le(s) fichier(s) MP3 est/sont lu(s). Les autres données sont ignorées. (Les données de CD audio ne sont pas reconnues.) – Si le disque ne contient aucun fichier MP3, le message « NO MUSIC » s’affiche et aucun son n’est émis. (Les données de CD audio ne sont pas reconnues.)
Ordre de lecture des fichiers MP3 Les fichiers et dossiers sont lus dans l’ordre suivant : 1 1 2 6 Hiérarchie 1 (Dossier principal) Hiérarchie 2 Hiérarchie 3 Hiérarchie 4 Hiérarchie 5 Dossier (album) Fichier MP3 (plage) 2 3 3 4 5 5 6 7 7 8 8 Remarques Les dossiers ne contenant aucun fichier MP3 sont ignorés. Lorsque vous insérez un disque comportant de nombreuses hiérarchies, il faut plus de temps pour démarrer la lecture. Nous vous recommandons de ne faire qu’une ou deux hiérarchies par disque. Nombre maximum de dossiers : 150 (y compris le dossier principal et les dossiers vides) Nombre maximal de fichiers MP3 et de dossiers pouvant être contenus sur un disque : 300 Lorsqu’un nom de fichier/dossier contient de nombreux caractères, ce nombre peut être inférieur à 300. Pour programmer un ordre de lecture précis, ajoutez des nombres en ordre croissant au début des noms des fichiers ou des dossiers (par ex. « 01 », « 02 », etc.), puis copiez le tout sur un disque. (L’ordre varie selon le logiciel de copie.) 4 9 15
Entretien Nettoyage du panneau avant Essuyez la surface avec un chiffon doux et sec. N’utilisez pas de nettoyants liquides ni de vaporisateurs. Nettoyage des connecteurs Les connecteurs doivent être nettoyés périodiquement. Essuyez la surface des connecteurs avec un coton- tige imprégné d’alcool. Appareil Arrière du panneau avant Remarques Pour plus de sécurité, coupez le moteur avant de nettoyer les connecteurs et retirez la clé du contact. Ne touchez jamais les connecteurs directement avec les doigts ou avec un objet métallique. Remplacement du fusible Lorsque vous remplacez le fusible, veillez à utiliser un fusible dont la capacité, en ampères, correspond à la valeur indiquée sur l’ancien fusible. Si le fusible fond, vérifiez le branchement de l’alimentation et remplacez le fusible. Si le nouveau fusible fond, il est possible que l’appareil soit défectueux. Dans ce cas, consultez votre revendeur Sony le plus proche. Avertissement Ne jamais utiliser de fusible dont la capacité en ampères dépasse celle du fusible fourni avec l’appareil, car vous risqueriez d’endommager l’appareil. 16 Fusible (10 A) Démontage de l’appareil 1 Retirez le cadre de protection. 1 Retirez le panneau avant (page 4). 2 Insérez les clés de déblocage dans le cadre de protection. 3 Tirez sur les clés de déblocage pour retirer le cadre de protection. 2 Retirez l’appareil. 1 Insérez les deux clés de déblocage simultanément jusqu’au déclic. 2 Tirez sur les clés de déblocage pour extraire l’appareil. 3 Faites glisser l’appareil hors de son support. Orientez correctement la clé de déblocage. Tournez le crochet vers l’intérieur.
Spécifications Radio FM Plage d’accord 87,5 - 107,9 MHz Borne d’antenne Connecteur d’antenne externe Fréquence intermédiaire 10,7 MHz/450 kHz Sensibilité utile 9 dBf Sélectivité 75 dB à 400 kHz Rapport signal/bruit 67 dB (stéréo), 69 dB (mono) Distorsion harmonique à 1 kHz 0,5 % (stéréo), 0,3 % (mono) Séparation 35 dB à 1 kHz Réponse en fréquence 30 - 15 000 Hz AM Plage d’accord 530 - 1 710 kHz Borne d’antenne Connecteur d’antenne externe Fréquence intermédiaire 10,7 MHz/450 kHz Sensibilité 30 µ V Lecteur CD Rapport signal/bruit 120 dB Réponse en fréquence 10 - 20 000 Hz Pleurage et scintillement En dessous du seuil mesurable Amplificateur de puissance Sorties Sorties de haut-parleurs (connecteurs de sécurité) Impédance des haut-parleurs 4 - 8 ohms Puissance de sortie maximale 52 W × 4 (à 4 ohms) Généralités Sorties Borne de sorties audio (ajustable arrière/haut-parleur d’extrême grave) Borne de commande de relais d’antenne électrique Borne de commande d’amplificateur de puissance Entrées Borne d’entrée d’antenne Commandes de tonalité Graves : ± 10 dB à 60 Hz (HIP-HOP) Médiums : ± 10 dB à 1 kHz (HIP-HOP) Aigus : ± 10 dB à 10 kHz (HIP-HOP) Alimentation requise Batterie de véhicule 12 V CC (masse négative) Dimensions Environ 178 × 50 × 176 mm (7 1 / 8 × 2 × 7 po.) (l/h/p) Dimensions du support Environ 182 × 53 × 161 mm (7 1 / 4 × 2 1 / 8 × 6 3 / 8 po.) (l/h/p) Poids Environ 1,2 kg (2 livres 10 on.) Accessoires fournis Eléments d’installation et de raccordement Etui pour le panneau avant (1) Mini-télécommande RM-Z304 La conception et les spécifications sont sujettes à modification sans préavis. 17
PRECAUCIONES Si estaciona el automóvil bajo la luz directa del sol, deje que la unidad se enfríe antes de utilizarla. Las antenas motorizadas se extenderán automáticamente mientras la unidad se encuentra en funcionamiento. Si desea realizar alguna consulta o solucionar algún problema relativo a la unidad y que este manual no trate, consulte con el distribuidor Sony más cercano a su domicilio. Condensación de humedad En días lluviosos o en áreas muy húmedas, puede presentarse condensación dentro de las lentes y el visor de la unidad. Si esto ocurriera, la unidad no funcionará correctamente. En tal caso, extraiga el disco de la unidad y espere alrededor de una hora hasta que se haya evaporado la humedad. Para mantener una alta calidad de sonido Asegúrese de no derramar zumos ni refrescos sobre la unidad o los discos. Para obtener información sobre la instalación y las conexiones, consulte el manual de instalación/conexiones suministrado. 2 Notas sobre los discos Para mantener los discos limpios, no toque su superficie. Tómelos por los bordes. Guarde los discos en sus cajas o en los cargadores de discos cuando no los utilice. No someta los discos al calor ni a altas temperaturas. Evite dejarlos en un automóvil estacionado o sobre el tablero o la bandeja trasera. No adhiera etiquetas a los discos, ni use discos con residuos o tinta pegajosos. Tales discos pueden dejar de girar durante el uso, causando fallos de funcionamiento, o pueden dañarse. No use discos con etiquetas o adhesivos pegados. Si usa tales discos se pueden producir las siguientes fallas de funcionamiento: – No se puede expulsar el disco (dado que se ha despegado la etiqueta o el adhesivo y se obstruye el mecanismo de expulsión). – No se pueden leer datos de audio correctamente (por ejemplo, se interrumpe la reproducción o bien no se reproduce) debido a la contracción a causa del calor de un adhesivo o etiqueta que hace que el disco se distorsione. No se pueden reproducir en esta unidad discos de formas no estándar (por ejemplo, en forma de corazón, cuadrado o estrella). Tratar de hacerlo puede dañar la unidad. No utilice este tipo de discos.  No se pueden reproducir CD de 8 cm.
Antes de realizar la reproducción, limpie los discos con un paño de limpieza disponible en el mercado. Pase el paño desde el centro hacia el borde exterior. No utilice disolventes como bencina, diluyente, limpiadores disponibles en el mercado ni aerosoles antiestáticos para discos analógicos. Discos de música codificados mediante tecnologías de protección de los derechos de autor Este producto se ha diseñado para reproducir discos que cumplen con el estándar Compact Disc (CD). Recientemente, algunas compañías discográficas comercializan discos de música codificados mediante tecnologías de protección de derechos de autor. Tenga en cuenta que, entre estos discos, algunos no cumplen con el estándar CD, por lo que no podrán reproducirse mediante este producto. Notas acerca de los CD-R (discos compactos grabables)/CD-RW (discos compactos regrabables) Este aparato puede reproducir los siguientes discos: Tipo de discos Etiqueta en el disco Disco compacto de audio Archivos MP3 Archivos MP3 Algunos CD-R/CD-RW (según el equipo utilizado para grabación o la condición del disco) pueden no reproducirse en este aparato. No puede reproducir un CD-R/CD-RW que no esté finalizado*. Puede reproducir archivos MP3 grabados en los CD-ROM, CD-R y CD-RW. Un CD-R/CD-RW en el que se puede agregar una sesión puede reproducirse. * Un proceso necesario para un disco CD-R o CD- RW grabado para reproducirlo en un reproductor de discos compactos de audio. TABLA DE CONTENIDO PARA EMPEZAR Reposición de la unidad ..................................... 4 Modo DEMO (demostración) ............................ 4 Protección antirrobos .......................................... 4 FUNCIONAMIENTO BASICO, AUDIO Y AJUSTE DEL RELOJ Conexión de la unidad ........................................ 5 Ajuste del reloj ..................................................... 5 Ajuste del sonido ................................................. 5 FUNCIONAMIENTO DE LA RADIO Memorización automática de emisoras............ 7 Recepción de emisoras memorizadas ............... 7 Memorización manual de emisoras .................. 7 FUNCIONAMIENTO DEL REPRODUCTOR DE DISCOS COMPACTOS Reproducción de un disco .................................. 8 Lectura de la pantalla .......................................... 9 OTRAS FUNCIONES Utilización de un equipo auxiliar .................... 10 Distintos ajustes ................................................. 10 CONTROL REMOTO DE TARJETA Nombres de las partes ...................................... 11 Preparativos ....................................................... 11 Cambio de la pila ............................................... 11 SOLUCIÓN DE PROBLEMAS Generales ............................................................ 12 Recepción de la radio ........................................ 12 Reproducción de disco compacto ................... 13 INDICACIONES DE ERROR/MENSAJES Indicaciones de error ......................................... 13 Mensajes .............................................................. 13 INFORMACION ADICIONAL Acerca de los archivos MP3 ............................. 14 Mantenimiento ................................................... 16 Extracción de la unidad .................................... 16 Especificaciones ................................................. 17 3
PARA EMPEZAR Nota Algunos botones en esta unidad se asignaron a dos o más funciones. Para descripciones detalladas, refiérase a las páginas relacionadas. Reposición de la unidad Antes de hacer funcionar la unidad por primera vez, o después de cambiar la batería del coche o de cambiar las conexiones, debe reponer la unidad. Extraiga el panel frontal y presione el botón de reposición con un objeto puntiagudo, como un bolígrafo. Panel frontal extraído Botón de reposición Nota Una presión del botón de reposición borrará el reloj y algunas funciones memorizadas. Modo DEMO (demostración) La unidad tiene un modo de indicación adicional (DEMO) con demostración de los modos de iluminación de la unidad. Cuando desactive la unidad presionando (OFF) , el reloj aparece durante unos 10 segundos y después la unidad cambia al modo DEMO. Para cancelar el modo DEMO 1 Cuando está en el modo DEMO, mantenga presionado (PUSH-MENU) hasta que aparezca “SET” en la pantalla. 2 Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para seleccionar “DEMO”. 3 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para seleccionar “DEMO OFF”. Para volver al modo DEMO repita lo anterior y seleccione “DEMO ON” en el paso 2. Protección antirrobos Llévese el panel frontal consigo cuando salga del coche y guárdelo en su estuche de transporte suministrada. 4 Alarma de precaución Si desconecta el interruptor de encendido a la posición OFF sin extraer el panel frontal, sonará la alarma de precaución durante varios segundos. Si conecta un amplificador opcional y no utiliza el amplificador integrado, el tono del timbre se desactivará. Para extraer el panel frontal 1 Presione Z para sacar el disco. 2 Presione (OFF) *. 3 Presione y sáquelo hacia sí. (Sujete el panel con una mano para evitar que se caiga accidentalmente.) * Si su automóvil no dispone de una posición ACC (accesorio) en la llave de encendido, asegúrese de apagar la unidad presionando (OFF) hasta que desaparezca la indicación a fin de evitar que la batería se desgaste. Para instalar el panel frontal 1 Instale el lado derecho del panel en el gancho derecho de la unidad. 2 Presione el panel hacia adelante hasta que quede fijado. Asegúrese de no presionar ningún botón ni la ventanilla de indicaciones. (OFF)
FUNCIONAMIENTO BASICO, AUDIO Y AJUSTE DEL RELOJ 5
Para reforzar el sonido de graves (H-BASS) Presione (H-BASS) . Cada vez que presione (H-BASS) , se conecta o desconecta el modo H-BASS. Nota El ajuste H-BASS no afecta la salida de señal de los conectores AUDIO OUT REAR en el panel posterior para la posición “SUB” (altavoz de subgraves). Para ajustar el ecualizador (EQ) Puede seleccionar una curva de ecualizador para 7 tipos de música (HIP-HOP, VOCAL, CLUB, JAZZ, POPS, ROCK, CUSTOM). Puede memorizar un ajuste de ecualizador diferente para cada fuente. Para seleccionar la curva de ecualizador 1 Presione (SOURCE) para seleccionar una fuente (TUNER, CD o AUX). 2 Presione repetidamente (EQ) para seleccionar la curva de ecualizador deseada. Para cancelar el efecto de ecualización, seleccione “OFF”. Para ajustar la curva de ecualizador Puede ajustar y memorizar los ajustes de ecualizador para diferentes gamas de tonos. 1 Siga los pasos 1 y 2 anteriores. 2 Presione (PUSH-MENU) . 3 Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para seleccionar la gama de tonos deseada; “LOW”, “MID” o “HI”. 4 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para ajustar el nivel de volumen deseado. El nivel de volumen puede ajustarse entre –10 y +10 dB en pasos de 1 dB. 5 Repita los pasos 2 a 4 para ajustar la curva de ecualizador. Nota Cuando el EQ está ajustado a “OFF” no puede ajustar las selecciones de curva de ecualizador. 6 Para recuperar los ajustes de fábrica Puede recuperar los ajustes de fábrica para las selecciones de curva de ecualizador mientras hace los ajustes. Durante el ajuste, mantenga presionado (PUSH-MENU) hasta que el tipo de ecualizador (tales como HIP-HOP) aparezca en la pantalla.
FUNCIONAMIENTO DE LA RADIO La unidad puede memorizar hasta 6 emisoras por banda (FM1, FM2, FM3, AM1 y AM2). Precaución Cuando sintoniza emisoras mientras conduce, utilice la Memoria de Mejores Sintonizaciones para evitar accidentes. Botones numéricos (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Memorización automática de emisoras – Memoria de Mejores Sintonizaciones (BTM) 1 Presione repetidamente (SOURCE) para seleccionar la radio 2 Presione repetidamente (MODE) para seleccionar la banda. 3 Mantenga presionado (BTM SENS) hasta que destelle “BTM” en la pantalla. La unidad memoriza las emisoras en el orden de sus frecuencias en los botones numéricos. Se escuchará un tono de timbre cuando se memoricen las selecciones. Notas Si sólo pueden recibirse pocas emisoras debido a que las señales son débiles, algunos botones numéricos mantendrán sus selecciones anteriores. Cuando se indica un número en la pantalla, la unidad empieza a memorizar las emisoras desde la que aparece en ese momento. Recepción de emisoras memorizadas 1 Presione repetidamente (SOURCE) para seleccionar la radio. 2 Presione repetidamente (MODE) para seleccionar la banda. 3 Presione el botón numérico ( (1) a (6) ) en el que desea memorizar la emisora deseada. Número de botón (SOURCE) (MODE) (BTM SENS) Banda Frecuencia Sintonización automática Si no funciona la sintonización por prefijados, pruebe con la sintonización automática. Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para buscar la emisora. El escaneo se detiene cuando la unidad recibe una emisora. Repita la operación hasta que se reciba la emisora deseada. Si se para frecuentemente la sintonización automática Presione repetidamente (BTM SENS) hasta que aparezca “LOCALON” en la pantalla. Aparece el indicador “LCL”. Sólo las emisoras con señales relativamente fuertes se sintonizarán (modo de búsqueda local). Para cancelar el modo de búsqueda local, presione (BTM SENS) una o dos veces para que se apague el indicador “LCL”. Si sabe la frecuencia de la emisora (sintonización manual) Mantenga presionado (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para ubicar la frecuencia aproximada. Presione repetidamente (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para un ajuste fino a la frecuencia deseada. Modo monoaural Si la recepción de FM estéreo es mala, reciba la emisora en el modo monoaural. Durante la recepción de la radio, presione repetidamente (BTM SENS) hasta que aparezca “MONO ON” en la pantalla. Aparece el indicador “MONO”. Para volver a la recepción normal de la radio, vuelva a presionar (BTM SENS) . Memorización manual de emisoras Puede memorizar sólo las emisoras deseadas en cualquiera de los botones numéricos seleccionados. 1 Presione repetidamente (SOURCE) para seleccionar la radio. 2 Presione repetidamente (MODE) para seleccionar la banda. 3 Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para sintonizar la emisora deseada. 4 Mantenga presionado el botón de número deseado ( (1) a (6) ) hasta que aparezca “MEM”. 7
FUNCIONAMIENTO DEL REPRODUCTOR DE DISCOS COMPACTOS Además de la reproducción de discos compactos comunes, puede disfrutar de las siguientes funciones: Puede reproducir archivos MP3 *1 Puede reproducir CD-R/CD-RW que tiene una sesión agregada. La información CD TEXT aparece cuando se reproduce un disco CD TEXT *2 . *1 Para más detalles sobre los archivos MP3, vea “Acerca de los archivos MP3” en la página 14. *2 Un disco CD TEXT es un disco compacto de audio que incluye información tal como el nombre del disco, nombre de artistas y nombres de canciones. Esta información está grabada en el disco. Reproducción de un disco (OFF) (PUSH-MENU) (SHUF) (REP) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Inserte un disco con el lado de etiqueta hacia arriba. Aparece “CD” en la pantalla y empieza la reproducción. Si hay un disco ya insertado, presione repetidamente (SOURCE) hasta que aparezca “CD” para empezar la reproducción. En la reproducción normal, cuando termina la última canción, la unidad vuelve a la primera canción y continúa con la reproducción. 8 (SOURCE) (DSPL) (6) (ALBUM+) (5) (ALBUM–) Para Presione Parar la reproducción Z u (OFF) Expulsar el disco Z Saltar canciones (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) ( . / > ) (una vez para cada canción) Avance rápido/retroceso (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) ( m / M ) (Mantenga presionado en el punto deseado.) Salte albúmenes* (5) (ALBUM –) o (6) (ALBUM +) (Mantenga presionado en el álbum deseado.) * Disponible sólo cuando se reproduce un archivo MP3. Notas Según la condición del disco, puede no reproducir. Un CD-R o CD-RW puede demorar en empezar a reproducir pero esto no es un mal funcionamiento. Cuando se reproduce la primera/última canción, si se presiona (SEEK) (–) o (SEEK) (+), la reproducción salta a la última/primera canción. Si reproduce un archivo MP3 de alta velocidad de bits tales como 320 kbps, el sonido puede escucharse intermitentemente. Z Reproducción repetida y aleatoria Puede seleccionar: REPTRACK – para repetir la canción en curso. REPALBM* – para repetir las canciones en el álbum en curso. SHUFALBM* – para reproducir las canciones en el álbum en curso en orden aleatorio. SHUFDISC – para reproducir todas las canciones en el disco en orden aleatorio. * Disponible sólo cuando se reproduce un archivo MP3. Durante la reproducción, presione repetidamente (REP) o (SHUF) hasta que aparezca el modo de repetición o aleatorio deseado en la pantalla. Para volver a la reproducción normal, seleccione “REPOFF” o “SHUFOFF”. Nota Durante la reproducción aleatoria, si presiona . , permite saltar sólo al principio de la canción en curso, no a la canción anterior.
Lectura de la pantalla Cuando cambia el disco/álbum/canción, aparece cualquier título *1 pregrabado del nuevo disco/ álbum/canción. Si se activa el modo de avance automático, avanzarán los nombres que superan 8 caracteres. Puede ver los siguientes ítems: Número de canción/tiempo de reproducción transcurrido Nombre del disco *1 /nombre del artista *2 Nombre del álbum *3 Nombre de la canción *1*3 Etiqueta de ID3 *3 Reloj Para Presione Cambiar el ítem de indicación (DSPL) *1 Aparece “NO NAME” cuando no puede verse ningún nombre pregrabado. *2 Sólo para discos CD TEXT con el nombre de artista *3 Sólo para archivos MP3 Sólo aparece el nombre de canción/nombre de artista/nombre de álbum en la etiqueta ID3 Aparece “NO ID3” cuando no aparece ninguna etiqueta ID3. Notas Algunos caracteres no pueden aparecer. Para algunos discos CD TEXT con muchos caracteres, la información puede no avanzar. Esta unidad no puede mostrar el nombre de artista para cada canción de un disco CD TEXT. Para activar/desactivar el modo de avance automático 1 Mantenga presionado (PUSH-MENU) hasta que aparezca “SET” en la pantalla. 2 Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para seleccionar “A.SCRL”. 3 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para seleccionar “ON” u “OFF”. Notas acerca de MP3 La etiqueta ID3 se aplica a la versión 1.0, 1.1, 2.2, 2.3 y 2.4 Algunos caracteres no pueden aparecer. Los caracteres y símbolos que no pueden aparecer se sustituyen por “*”. El máximo número de caracteres para el nombre de álbum (carpeta)/canción (archivo) que pueden aparecer es 64 cada uno. La etiqueta ID3 es de hasta 30 caracteres (1.0, 1.1, 2.2, y 2.3) o 126 caracteres (2.4). En los siguientes casos, el tiempo de reproducción transcurrido puede no aparecer precisamente. – cuando se reproduce el archivo MP3 de VBR (velocidad de bit variable). – durante el avance rápido/retroceso. 9
OTRAS FUNCIONES (PUSH-MENU) (SEEK) (+)/ (SEEK) (–) Utilización de un equipo auxiliar Puede escuchar el equipo (como reproductor portátil de casete, minidisco o MP3) conectado a la unidad. Consulte las instrucciones de funcionamiento para el correspondiente equipo, para información más detallada. Asegúrese de sacar el disco compacto insertado para evitar posible daño a la unidad antes de conectar el equipo. 1 Conecte un reproductor portátil de casete/ minidisco/MP3 u otro equipo en la toma AUX de la unidad (diám. 3,5 mm). 2 Presione repetidamente (SOURCE) hasta que aparezca “AUX” en la pantalla. Distintos ajustes Para alinear los niveles de sonido (Ajustador de nivel de fuente) El volumen puede cambiar cada vez que cambie el modo de fuente. En este caso, puede alinear el volumen de cada modo de fuente a casi el mismo nivel. 1 Seleccione el modo de fuente a ajustar. 2 Mantenga presionado (SOURCE) hasta que aparezca “LEVEL 0” en la pantalla. 3 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para ajustar el nivel. El nivel de volumen puede ajustarse de –6 a +6 dB en pasos de 1 dB. 10 (SOURCE) Para cambiar los ajustes de pantalla y tono de timbre Puede ajustar la intensidad de la iluminación de la pantalla y active o desactive el medidor de nivel VU y el tono de timbre. Haga lo siguiente con la unidad conectada. Hay ítems que no puede seleccionar si los selecciona con la unidad desactivada. 1 Mantenga presionado (PUSH-MENU) hasta que aparezca “SET” en la pantalla. 2 Presione (SEEK) (+) o (SEEK) (–) para seleccionar “DIM”, “VU” O “BEEP”. Cada vez que presione (SEEK) (+) el ítem cambia de la siguiente forma: DIM (intensidad) t VU (medidor de nivel VU) t A.SCRL* t BEEP (tono de timbre) * El avance automático, puede utilizarse cuando la fuente es un disco compacto (página 9) 3 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para cambiar el ajuste para el menú seleccionado. AUX Para seleccionar el tipo de equipo conectado en el panel posterior Puede conectar un amplificador de potencia o un altavoz de subgraves en las tomas AUDIO OUT REAR en la parte posterior de la unidad. Cuando se conecta un amplificador de potencia o un altavoz de subgraves, seleccione correctamente el tipo de equipo conectado. 1 Con la unidad desactivada (aparece el reloj o DEMO), presione (PUSH-MENU) . 2 Gire (PUSH-MENU) para seleccionar “REAR” (para un amplificador de potencia) o “SUB” (para un altavoz de subgraves).
CONTROL REMOTO DE TARJETA Nombres de las partes 1 2 3 4 5 1 Botón DSPL 2 Botón SOURCE 3 Botones SEEK (+/–) 4 Botón OFF 5 Botones VOL (+/–) 6 Botón MODE 7 Botones PRESET/ALBUM (+/–) 8 Botón ATT Nota Si la indicación desaparece presionando (OFF) , no puede hacer funcionar con el control remoto a menos que se presione (SOURCE) en la unidad o se haya insertado un disco para activar primero la unidad. Preparativos Se instaló de fábrica una pila de litio en el control remoto. Antes de utilizar el control remoto, asegúrese de sacar la lámina de aislación, tirando de la misma. Control remoto (posterior) Lámina de aislación 6 DSPL MODE ALBUM + + PRESET 7 SOURCE SEEK – SEEK + PRESET – ALBUM – 8 + VOL ATT OFF – Cambio de la pila 1 Inserte la punta de un objeto puntiagudo A en el orificio B y saque el portapilas para sacar la pila de litio (CR2025). 2 Instale una nueva pila de litio (CR2025)* con el lado 3 hacia arriba en el portapilas y presione el portapilas en la unidad hasta escuchar un chasquido. * El uso de otra pila puede provocar un incendio o explosión. Nota Cuando se expone el receptor de infrarrojos de la unidad principal a los rayos directos del sol, puede no responder a las señales del control remoto. Notas sobre la pila de litio Mantenga la pila de litio fuera del alcance de los niños. En caso de ingerirse, consulte a un médico inmediatamente. Limpie la pila con un paño seco para garantizar un contacto óptimo. Asegúrese de observar la polaridad correcta al instalar la pila. No agarre la pila con pinzas metálicas, ya que si lo hace puede producirse un cortocircuito. ADVERTENCIA La pila puede explotar si no se emplea adecuadamente. No recargue la pila; tampoco la desmonte ni la arroje al fuego. Control remoto (posterior) B Portapilas A 11
SOLUCIÓN DE PROBLEMAS La siguiente lista de comprobaciones le ayudará a solucionar los problemas que puedan producirse con la unidad. Antes de consultar la siguiente lista, compruebe los procedimientos de conexión y de funcionamiento. Generales No se oye el sonido. Presione el botón de volumen (PUSH-MENU) para ajustar el volumen. Cancele la función ATT. Ajuste el control de equilibrio en la posición central para un sistema de 2 altavoces. El contenido de la memoria se ha borrado. Ha presionado el botón de reposición. t Vuelva a almacenar el contenido en la memoria. Se han desconectado el cable de alimentación o las pilas. El cable de conexión de la alimentación no está conectado correctamente. No se oyen los pitidos. El sonido de los pitidos está cancelado (página 10). Un amplificador opcional de potencia está conectado y usted no está usando el amplificador incorporado. La indicación desaparece o no aparece en el visor. La indicación desaparece si mantiene presionado (OFF) . t Vuelva a presionar (OFF) hasta que aparezca la indicación. Extraiga el panel frontal y limpie los conectores. Consulte “Limpieza de los conectores” (página 16) para obtener detalles. Las emisoras memorizadas y la hora correcta se han borrado. El fusible se ha fundido. Se oye ruido cuando la llave de encendido se encuentra en la posición ON, ACC u OFF. Los cables no coinciden con el conector de alimentación auxiliar del automóvil. La unidad no recibe alimentación. Compruebe la conexión. Si todo está en orden, compruebe el fusible. El automóvil no dispone de una posición ACC. t Presione (SOURCE) (o inserte un disco) para que se encienda la unidad La antena motorizada no se extiende. La antena motorizada no dispone de caja de relé. 12 Recepción de la radio No es posible utilizar la sintonización programada. Almacene la frecuencia correcta en la memoria. La señal de emisión es demasiado débil. No es posible recibir las emisoras. Hay ruidos que obstaculizan el sonido. Conecte un cable de control de antena motorizada (azul) o un cable de fuente de alimentación auxiliar (rojo) al cable de suministro de alimentación del amplificador de antena del automóvil. (Sólo si su auto tiene una antena FM/ AM incorporada en el cristal posterior o lateral.) Compruebe la conexión de la antena del automóvil. La antena automática no se extiende. t Compruebe la conexión del cable de control de antena motorizada. Compruebe la frecuencia. No es posible utilizar la sintonización automática. El modo de búsqueda local está ajustado en “ON”. t Ajuste el modo de búsqueda local en “OFF” (página 7). La señal de emisión es demasiado débil. t Utilice la sintonización manual. Un programa emitido en estéreo se oye en monoaural. t Cancele el modo de recepción monoaural (página 7).
Reproducción de disco compacto No se puede insertar un disco compacto Ya está insertado otro disco compacto. El disco compacto se insertó a la fuerza con el lado de arriba abajo o de forma equivocada. No empieza la reproducción Disco compacto defectuoso o sucio Un CD-R/CD-RW no finalizado Algunos CD-R/CD-RW pueden no reproducirse según el equipo de grabación o el estado del disco. Los archivos MP3 no pueden reproducirse. La grabación no se hizo de acuerdo con el formato de nivel 1 o nivel 2 de ISO 9660 o el Joliet o Romeo en el formato de expansión. La extensión de archivo “.MP3” no está agregada al nombre del archivo. Los archivos no están memorizados en el formato MP3. Los archivos MP3 demoran más en reproducir que los otros. Los siguientes discos demoran más en empezar a reproducir. – un disco grabado con una estructura de árbol complicada – un disco grabado en Múltiple Sesión. – un disco en el que pueden agregarse datos. Un disco se expulsa automáticamente. La temperatura ambiente supera 50˚C. Los botones de funcionamiento no funcionan. El disco compacto no se expulsará. Presione el botón de reposición. El sonido salta por la vibración. La unidad se instaló en un ángulo de más de 45˚. La unidad no está instalada sobre una parte estable del coche. Salta el sonido Disco sucio o defectuoso. INDICACIONES DE ERROR/ MENSAJES Indicaciones de error Las siguientes indicaciones destellarán durante unos 5 segundos y se escuchará un sonido de alarma. ERROR Un disco compacto está sucio o se insertó al revés. t Limpie o inserte correctamente el disco compacto. Un disco compacto no puede reproducir porque tiene problemas. t Inserte otro disco compacto. FAILURE La conexión de altavoces/amplificadores es incorrecta. t Vea el manual de guía de instalación de este modelo para verificar la conexión. HI TEMP La temperatura ambiente es de más de 50˚C. t Espere hasta que baje la temperatura por debajo de 50˚C. NO MUSIC Se insertó un disco compacto sin archivo de música en esta unidad. t Inserte un disco compacto de música en esta unidad. OFFSET Puede haber un mal funcionamiento interno. t Verifique la conexión. Si la indicación de error permanece encendida, consulte con su tienda de Sony más cercana. RESET La unidad de disco compacto no funciona porque tiene problemas. t Presione el botón de reposición. Mensajes L.SEEK +/– El modo de búsqueda local está activado durante la sintonización automática (página 7). “ ” o “ ” Se llegó al principio o al fin del disco y no puede ir más allá. Si estas soluciones no ayudan a mejorar la situación, consulte con su tienda de Sony más cercana. 13
INFORMACION ADICIONAL Acerca de los archivos MP3 El MP3 (MPEG 1 Capa de audio 3) es una tecnología estándar y un formato para comprimir una secuencia de sonidos. El archivo se comprime a un 1/10 de su tamaño original. Los sonidos fuera del alcance de audición humana se comprimen y los sonidos que podemos escuchar no se comprimen. Notas acerca de los discos Puede reproducir archivos MP3 grabados en CD- ROM, CD-R y CD-RW. El disco debe estar en el formato de nivel 1 o nivel 2 de ISO 9660 *1 , o Joliet o Romeo en el formato de expansión. Puede utilizar un disco grabado en Múltiple Sesión *2 *1 Formato ISO 9660 La norma internacional más común para el formato lógico de archivos y carpetas en un CD- ROM. Hay distintos niveles de especificación. En el nivel 1, los nombres de archivo deben estar en el formato 8,3 (no más de 8 caracteres en el nombre, no más de 3 caracteres en la extensión “.MP3” y en letras mayúsculas. Los nombres de carpeta no pueden ser de más de 8 caracteres. No puede haber más de 8 niveles de jerarquía en la carpeta. Las especificaciones de nivel 2 permiten nombres de archivo de hasta 31 caracteres. Cada carpeta puede tener hasta 8 árboles. Para Joliet o Romeo en el formato de expansión, asegúrese del contenido del software de escritura, etc. *2 Múltiple Sesión Este es un método de grabación que permite agregar datos utilizando el método de Canción de una Vez. Los discos compactos convencionales empiezan en el área de control de disco compacto llamado Entrada y terminan en un área llamada Salida. Un disco compacto de Múltiple Sesión es un disco compacto con múltiples sesiones con cada segmento de Entrada a Salida considerado como una sola sesión. CD-Extra: El formato que graba el audio (datos de disco compacto de audio) como canciones en la sesión 1 y graba los datos como canciones en la sesión 2. Mixed CD: En este formato, los datos se graban como canción 1 y el audio (datos de disco compacto de audio) se graban como canción 2. 14 Notas Con otros formatos que el nivel 1 y nivel 2 de ISO 9660, los nombres de carpeta y nombres de archivo pueden no aparecer correctamente. Cuando ponga nombres, asegúrese de agregar la extensión de archivo “.MP3” en el nombre de archivo. Si pone la extensión “.MP3” en un archivo que no sea MP3, la unidad no puede reconocer correctamente el archivo y generará ruidos aleatorios que pueden dañar sus altavoces. Los siguientes discos pueden demorar más en empezar a reproducir. – un disco grabado con una estructura de árbol complicada. – un disco grabado en Múltiple Sesión. – un disco donde se agregaron datos. Precauciones cuando reproduce un disco grabado en Múltiple Sesión Cuando la primera canción de la primera sesión son datos de disco compacto de audio: Sólo los datos de disco compacto de audio de la primera sesión se reproducen. Los datos de sesiones siguientes se saltean. Cuando la primera canción de la primera sesión no es un datos de disco compacto de audio: – Si un archivo MP3 está en el disco, sólo se reproduce el/los archivo(s) MP3 y los otros datos se saltean. (No se reconocen los datos de disco compacto de audio.) – Si no hay archivo MP3 en el disco, aparece “NO MUSIC” y no se reproduce nada. (No se reconocen los datos del disco compacto de audio.)
El orden de reproducción de archivos MP3 El orden de reproducción de las carpetas y archivos es el siguiente. 1 1 2 6 Arbol 1 Arbol 2 Arbol 3 Arbol 4 Arbol 5 (raíz) Carpeta (álbum) Archivo MP3 (canción) 2 3 3 4 5 5 6 7 7 8 8 Notas Se saltan las carpetas que no incluyen archivos MP3. Cuando inserta un disco con muchos árboles, demora más en empezar a reproducir. Se recomienda hacer sólo uno o dos árboles para cada disco. Máximo número de carpetas: 150 (incluyendo la carpeta raíz y carpetas vacías) El máximo número de archivo y carpetas MP3 que puede contener un disco: 300 Cuando un nombre de archivo/carpeta tiene muchos caracteres, este número puede ser menos de 300. Para especificar un orden de reproducción deseado, antes de los nombres de carpeta o archivo, entre el orden por número (por ejemplo: “01”, “02”), y grabe el contenido en un disco. (El orden es diferente dependiendo del software de escritura.) 4 9 15
Mantenimiento Limpieza del panel frontal Limpie la superficie con un paño suave, seco. No utilice limpiadores líquidos o en aerosol. Limpieza de los conectores Los conectores deben limpiarse de vez en cuando. Limpie la superficie de los conectores con un algodón ligeramente empapado con alcohol. Unidad principal Parte posterior del panel frontal Notas Por razones de seguridad, apague el motor antes de limpiar los conectores y extraiga la llave del encendido. No toque nunca los conectores directamente con los dedos ni con un dispositivo metálico. Sustitución del fusible Cuando cambie el fusible, asegúrese de usar uno cuyo amperaje sea idéntico al especificado en el original. Si el fusible se funde, revise las conexiones de energía eléctrica y reemplace el fusible. Si el fusible se funde de nuevo después de reemplazarlo, puede que haya un problema de funcionamiento interno. En tal caso, consulte a su distribuidor Sony más cercano. Advertencia No utilice nunca un fusible cuyo amperaje supere al del suministrado con la unidad, ya que ésta podría dañarse. 16 Fusible (10 A) Extracción de la unidad 1 Extraiga el marco de protección. 1 Extraiga el panel frontal (página 4). 2 Fije las llaves de liberación con el marco de protección. 3 Tire de las llaves de liberación para extraer el marco de protección. 2 Extraiga la unidad. 1 Inserte las dos llaves de liberación a la vez hasta que oiga un “clic”. 2 Tire de las llaves de liberación para extraer la unidad. 3 Deslice la unidad para extraerla del emplazamiento. Oriente la llave de liberación en la dirección correcta. El gancho debe encontrarse en la parte interior.
Especificaciones Sección del sintonizador FM Rango de sintonización 87,5 - 107,9 MHz Terminal de antena Conector de antena externa Frecuencia intermedia 10,7 MHz/450 kHz Sensibilidad útil 9 dBf Selectividad 75 dB a 400 kHz Relación señal-ruido 67 dB (estéreo), 69 dB (monoaural) Distorsión armónica a 1 kHz 0,5 % (estéreo), 0,3 % (monoaural) Separación 35 dB a 1 kHz Respuesta de frecuencia 30 - 15 000 Hz AM Rango de sintonización 530 - 1 710 kHz Terminal de antena Conector de antena externa Frecuencia intermedia 10,7 MHz/450 kHz Sensibilidad 30 µ V Sección del reproductor de CD Relación de señal a ruido: 120 dB Respuesta de frecuencia 10 - 20 000 Hz Fluctuación y trémolo Inferior al límite medible Sección del amplificador de potencia Salidas Salidas de altavoz (conectores de sellado seguro) Impedancia de altavoz 4 - 8 Ω Salida máxima de potencia 52 W × 4 (a 4 Ω ) Generales Salidas Terminal de salida de audio (cambio posterior/secundario) Terminal de control de relé de antena motorizada Terminal de control del amplificador de potencia Entradas Terminal de entrada de antena Controles de tono Graves: ±10 dB a 60 Hz (HIP-HOP) Medios: ±10 dB a 1 kHz (HIP-HOP) Agudos: ±10 dB a 10 kHz (HIP-HOP) Requisitos de alimentación Batería de automóvil de cc 12 V (tierra negativa) Dimensiones: Aprox. 178 × 50 × 176 mm (an/al/prf) Dimensiones de montaje Aprox. 182 × 53 × 161 mm (an/al/prf) Peso Aprox. 1,2 kg Accesorios suministrados Piezas para instalación y conexiones Estuche para el panel frontal (1) Control remoto de tarjeta RM-Z304 El diseño y las especificaciones están sujetos a cambios sin previo aviso. 17
LIMITED WARRANTY Aiwa Strategic Accounts Partnership Inc. (“Aiwa”) warrants to the original consumer purchaser that this product is free of defects in material and workmanship at the time of purchase. During the applicable LABOR warranty period, Aiwa will pay labor and service charges for the repair of defects or, at its option, will replace a defective product with a new or remanufactured equivalent product. During the applicable PARTS warranty period, Aiwa will supply at no charge new or rebuilt replacement parts in exchange for defective parts. However, after the LABOR warranty period, all labor and service charges are your responsibility. Replacement parts are warranted for the remainder of the original PARTS warranty period. WARRANTY PERIODS The LABOR and PARTS warranty periods for your product are listed below. All warranty periods commence with the purchase date. PARTS 1 year LABOR 1 year Car Audio original evidence, showing the date and place of purchase and describing the product purchased. Be sure to include your return address and daytime telephone number where you can be reached protected from possible shipping damage. You must pick up the product when warranty performance is completed or, if you choose, and the product was received by the Service Center during To obtain warranty performance, you must take the product, or deliver the product freight prepaid, to an Aiwa Authorized Service Center. If shipped, the product must be packaged so that it is the LABOR warranty period, the repaired product will be returned to you freight prepaid. You must present to the Service Center, or include with your shipment, a dealer’s bill of sale, or other WHAT YOU MUST DO should the need arise. Center, product modification, accident, misuse, abuse, or negligence; or (5) reception problems caused by signal conditions, or cable or antenna systems outside the unit. This warranty will not This warranty does not cover (1) products purchased outside of the U.S.A.; (2) product set-up, adjustment of controls, repair of antenna systems outside the unit; (3) removal or reinstallation, batteries, carrying case, AC adapters and other accessories packaged with the product; (4) defects occurring after purchase due to repair or service other than by an Aiwa Authorized Service apply if the serial number of the unit has been altered or removed. WHAT THE WARRANTY DOES NOT COVER Aiwa’s warranty obligations must be performed by an Aiwa Authorized Service Center. For the name of the Aiwa Authorized Service Center nearest to you call toll free 1-800-289-2492 WHO PERFORMS AIWA’S WARRANTY? (1-800-BUY-AIWA). AIWA BE LIABLE FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THIS PRODUCT. Some states do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts or the MERCHANTABILITY AND OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SHALL NOT EXTEND BEYOND THE DURATION OF THE APPLICABLE PARTS WARRANTY PERIOD. IN NO EVENT SHALL exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitations or exclusion may not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT AS PROVIDED IN THIS WARRANTY IS THE PURCHASER’S EXCLUSIVE WARRANTY REMEDY. IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF other rights which may vary from state to state. IF YOU NEED HELP: For the latest in Product Information, Parts, Service Center listings and F.A.Q. information visit us on the web at www.us.aiwa.com or call 1-800-BUY-AIWA. D 455724401 For further Aiwa information, please call 1-800-BUY-AIWA. Visit us on the Internet at www.us.aiwa.com
Lead-free solder is used for soldering certain parts. Halogenated flame retardants are not used in the certain printed wiring boards. Halogenated flame retardants are not used in cabinets. Paper is used for the packaging cushions. Sony Corporation Printed in Thailand
